-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JvroI/P1mFIBfOn9tUESl7uD3M5qo06A7bvVy4grPYI6JUT1A0fIamE+WzVPint3
 zJIJ30wGyxAc8wouyBnU/Q==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000891020-96-001130.txt : 19960930
<SEC-HEADER>0000891020-96-001130.hdr.sgml : 19960930
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891020-96-001130
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19960630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960927
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		96635668

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY #BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2068828080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY - BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 6/30/96
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K



                |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996

              |_| TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



                  FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _____ TO ____




                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-14278


                              MICROSOFT CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          WASHINGTON                                            91-1144442
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

                ONE MICROSOFT WAY, REDMOND, WASHINGTON 98052-6399
               (Address of principal executive office) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (206) 882-8080

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: COMMON STOCK

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes|X|  No|_| 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |_|

    The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the
            registrant as of September 9, 1996 was $45,936,687,455.

    The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
                       September 9, 1996 was 596,226,947.
                                      
                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference
into Parts I, II and IV. 

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated September 27, 1996 to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held November 12, 1996 are incorporated by reference into Part III.





<PAGE>   2

                              MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                                    FORM 10-K

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996

                                      INDEX

PART I

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                                             <C>
Item 1.       Business......................................................................................      1

Item 2.       Properties....................................................................................     10

Item 3.       Legal Proceedings.............................................................................     10

Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders...........................................     10

PART II

Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters..........................     11

Item 6.       Selected Financial Data.......................................................................     11

Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.........     11

Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data...................................................     11

Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures.........     11

PART III

Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant............................................     12

Item 11.      Executive Compensation........................................................................     13

Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management................................     13

Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions................................................     13

PART IV

Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K...............................     14

Signatures    ..............................................................................................     15
</TABLE>



<PAGE>   3
                                     PART I


Item 1.   Business


GENERAL

Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" or "Microsoft") was founded as a
partnership in 1975 and incorporated in 1981. Microsoft develops, manufactures,
licenses, sells, and supports a wide range of software products, including
operating systems for personal computers (PCs) and servers; server applications
for client/server environments, business and consumer productivity applications;
interactive media programs; and Internet platform and development tools.
Microsoft also offers online services, sells personal computer books and input
devices, and researches and develops advanced technology software products.
Microsoft(R) products are available for most PCs, including Intel
microprocessor-based computers and Apple computers.

Microsoft's business strategy emphasizes the development of a broad line of PC
software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple
channels of distribution. The Company is divided into four main groups: the
Platforms Product Group; the Applications and Content Product Group; the Sales
and Support Group; and the Operations Group.

The Platforms Product Group is comprised of three divisions, each responsible
for a particular area of platforms software development and marketing. The
Desktop and Business Systems Division develops PC and server operating systems
and a suite of server applications. The Internet Platform and Tools Division
creates software development tools, Internet browser technology, and other
Internet and online products and technologies. The Consumer Platforms Division
develops system software for non-PC devices, integrated software systems for
public networks, and software for the creation of content for digital media
productions.

The Applications and Content Product Group creates and markets productivity
programs, desktop finance products, PC input devices, and interactive
entertainment and information products. The group also includes an advanced
technology research division. The Desktop Applications Division creates business
productivity applications and products designed for the home, school, and the
small business market. The Interactive Media Division develops kids titles,
games, information products, and The Microsoft Network (MSN(TM)). The Input
Device Division creates PC peripherals. The Desktop Finance Division develops
personal finance products. Microsoft Research is a research lab dedicated to
creating new technology in support of the Company's vision for the evolution of
personal computing.

The Sales and Support Group is responsible for building long-term business
relationships with customers. This group is organized to serve three customer
types: original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), end-users, and organizations.
The group also focuses directly on large enterprises, offering tailored license
programs, enterprisewide support, consulting services, and other specialized
services. The group manages the channels that serve customers by working with
OEMs, distributors, and resellers. In addition to the OEM channel, Microsoft has
three major geographic sales organizations: U.S. and Canada, Europe, and Other
International. The group supports the Company's products with technical support
for end-users, developers, and organizations.

The Operations Group is responsible for managing business operations and overall
business planning. This includes the process of manufacturing and delivering
finished goods and licenses; the publishing efforts of Microsoft Press; and
corporate functions such as finance, administration, human resources, and legal.


PRODUCTS

DESKTOP AND BUSINESS SYSTEMS

The Desktop and Business Systems Division has overall responsibility for the
Microsoft Windows(R) and Microsoft BackOffice(TM) product families.  Operating
system software performs a variety of functions, such as allocating computer
memory, scheduling applications software execution, managing information and
communication flow among the various PC components, and enabling end-users to
access files and information. The division's products are: (Please note: Windows
3.1 and Windows for Workgroups 3.11 are hereafter referred to collectively as
"Windows 3.X.")

WINDOWS 95: Microsoft's newest personal operating system, the successor to
MS-DOS and Windows 3.X, was released commercially in August 1995; periodic
service releases have been made available to hardware OEMs and to end-users via
the Internet on www.microsoft.com. Windows 95 is a fully integrated,
multitasking 32-bit operating system,



                                       1
<PAGE>   4






designed to be compatible with most Intel microprocessor-based PCs, hardware
devices, and Windows 3.X and MS-DOS applications.

WINDOWS NT WORKSTATION (NTW): Also a fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit
operating system, Windows NTW provides greater security, robustness and
portability. Given this optimization, Windows NTW is not as fully compatible
with as many legacy applications and device drivers as Windows 95. Windows NTW
is a multithreaded operating system for mission critical computing which
provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) across
four hardware platforms: Intel, Alpha AXP, MIPS, and Power PC.

MS-DOS: MS-DOS is a single-user, single-tasking operating system designed for
Intel microprocessor-based PCs. MS-DOS was introduced in 1981 and was
preinstalled by OEMs on most PCs shipped prior to the release of Windows 95.

WINDOWS 3.1: Microsoft Windows 3.1 provides a graphical user interface and
other enhancements for MS-DOS-based PCs. Windows 3.1 supports high-performance
Windows-based applications, and offers ease of use, aesthetic appeal, and
straightforward integration into corporate computing environments.

WINDOWS FOR WORKGROUPS 3.11: Windows for Workgroups 3.11 integrates network and
workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system. With Windows
for Workgroups, users can share files, data, and printers, with ease of access
and security.

WINDOWS NT SERVER (NTS): Windows NTS is a powerful operating system foundation
for both server applications and file and print serving, providing extensive
network management features, administration tools, security, and fault
tolerance, and is a platform for business critical applications and databases,
connectivity, system management, and mail servers. Windows NTS integrates Web
services such as Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS), a server used to
manage intranet and Internet functionality, Microsoft FrontPage(TM) Web
authoring and management tool, and Microsoft Index Server, a content indexing
and querying search engine.

MICROSOFT BACKOFFICE: The Microsoft BackOffice family of server applications is
an integrated series of software products that work together running on a single
server, on multiple servers across a network or intranet, or on the Internet.
BackOffice enables desktop users to access and integrate information from a
variety of sources inside and outside an organization. Microsoft Exchange Server
provides e-mail, group scheduling, and integrated groupware capabilities;
Microsoft SQL Server(TM) manages and stores data; Microsoft SNA Server provides
connectivity to host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems Management
Server centrally manages this distributed environment.


INTERNET PLATFORM AND TOOLS PRODUCTS

The Internet Platform and Tools Division provides Internet browser technology,
software development tools, Internet and online server products, and technical
information to Windows and Internet applications developers. These products and
services empower independent software developers, corporate developers,
solutions developers, and Webmasters to create a broad spectrum of applications,
primarily for Windows 95 and Windows NT, but also for the platform-independent
Internet and intranets.

INTERNET SOFTWARE: The division has overall development and marketing
responsibility for Microsoft Internet Explorer, the Company's Internet browser.
It also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and
intranet applications and content, including ActiveX(TM) controls. Formerly
known as object linking and embedding (OLE) controls, ActiveX controls are
components (or objects) that can be inserted into a Web page or other
application which allow packaged functionality programmed elsewhere to be
reused and enables realtime, interactive content.

DESKTOP DATABASE PRODUCTS: Database products control the maintenance and
utilization of structured data organized into a set of records or files. The
Company offers database products which span the needs of a wide variety of
users, from individuals to large corporations. Microsoft Access is a relational
database management application which provides access to structured business
data. Microsoft FoxPro is a desktop database development tool which is
compatible with the industry standard xBase development language.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOOLS AND COMPUTER LANGUAGES: Software development tools
and computer languages allow software developers to write programs in a
particular computer language and translate programs into a binary
machine-readable set of commands that activate and instruct PC hardware. The
Company develops and markets a number of software development environments,
language compilers, and software testing tools. Microsoft Visual C++(TM) is the
Company's development system for Windows application development. The Microsoft
Visual Basic(TM) programming system provides easy access to a wide variety of
data sources by integrating the Microsoft Access



                                       2
<PAGE>   5






database engine and the ability to leverage investments in commercial
applications through ActiveX controls. Microsoft(R) Visual J++, a development
environment for Java applications and Internet applets, contains a high
productivity Integrated Development Environment and a collection of integrated
components to create, test, tune and deploy Java code on multiple platforms
using ActiveX controls.

DEVELOPER INFORMATION: The Company provides third party software developers with
a wide range of technical and support information that assists them in
developing software products intended to run on Windows operating systems,
taking advantage of key technologies such as ActiveX controls and Windows 32-bit
APIs. Developers can subscribe to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN)
information service and receive periodic updates via CD-ROMs, magazines, and
several on-line information services.

ELECTRONIC COMMERCE AND INTERNET SERVICES: Microsoft is currently developing
software to enable retailing on the Internet. Microsoft Merchant Server, which
will run on Windows NTS, will allow merchants to provide online shopping to
customers and handle credit card transaction payments. Microsoft is also
developing a new platform for commercial Internet services designed for Internet
service providers and commercial Web publishers built on Windows NTS and
integrated with IIS. The technologies under development include the major
components needed to run a commercial, fee-based service, including value-added
mail, forum areas, chat, news, indexing, and other content management services.


CONSUMER PLATFORMS

The Consumer Platforms Division is developing software for three distinct
platforms: non-PC devices, the Broadcast PC, and Network Multimedia.

NON-PC DEVICES: The division is responsible for Windows CE development,
Microsoft's open and scaleable Windows platform for a broad range of
communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices. The Windows CE
platform is a new operating system enabling new categories of business and
consumer non-PC devices to communicate with each other, share information with
Windows PCs, and connect to the Internet. Windows CE devices are based on the
Win32 API and build on and extend the Company's technology and tools base. The
first non-PC product which will be available is the Handheld PC, designed to be
a companion to a Windows-based PC.

BROADCAST PC: The Broadcast PC will extend the Windows family by enabling PCs to
be clients of existing and emerging broadcast networks, supporting new content
opportunities for Windows-based PCs through the use of data broadcasting
technology. Examples of these networks include: satellite television networks,
Internet's Multicast backbone, cable television networks that support cable
modems, wireless cable networks, and conventional TV networks that broadcast
data in the vertical blanking interval (VBI) of the TV.

NETWORK MULTIMEDIA: The division is also developing multicasting tools which
will enable network administrators to efficiently deploy rich multimedia content
and applications, streaming technology enabling the client to view audio and
illustrated audio without downloading anything to the PC, and NT-based server
software designed to reliably deliver high-bandwidth video over dedicated
networks to a large number of PC clients.

The Consumer Platforms Division is also responsible for Softimage, which
develops, markets, and supports a family of interactive software products
enabling digital media producers to create and edit two- and three-dimensional
content for digital media productions. Softimage supplies 3D visualization
software for broadcast, film production, and other high-end animation
applications. In addition, Softimage has a product line of 2D visualization
software for use on high-end applications, including post production editing and
the integration of visual images, text, sound, and special effects technology.
These products are designed for the Windows NT and IRIX operating systems.

SOFTIMAGE 3D AND 3D EXTREME: Softimage 3D provides three-dimensional animation
software for film and video professionals, animators, and artists who create and
produce high-end three-dimensional imagery for traditional and new media. 3D
Extreme includes both the features of 3D and advanced special effects for
modeling and rendering.

DIGITAL STUDIO: Digital Studio is a fully integrated software-based environment
blending 2D and 3D graphics, digital video, and digital audio. Digital Studio
accommodates all types of projects for digital multimedia such as high end
advertising, entertainment, games, and integrated interactive multimedia,
offering all of the tools needed to create every kind of digital media
production in a consistent, digital authoring environment.






                                       3
<PAGE>   6







DESKTOP APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE

The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which provides
the PC with instructions for the performance of productivity tasks such as
manipulating text, numbers, or graphics. The Company's desktop applications
software is designed for use by a broad class of end-users, regardless of
business, industry, or market segment. Primary examples of desktop applications
software are word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation graphics programs.
The Company's desktop applications programs are developed principally for
Windows and Macintosh operating systems.

MICROSOFT OFFICE: Microsoft Office(R) is a suite of software programs featuring
seamless integration of the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft
Office is based upon a document-centric concept, with common commands and
extensive use of object linking and embedding (OLE) cross-application
capabilities. Microsoft Office is available in several versions, with certain
combinations of products available for the various operating system platforms.
Products offered in the various versions include Microsoft Word, Microsoft
Excel, the Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics program, Schedule+, the
Microsoft Access(R) database, Bookshelf, and others.

MICROSOFT WORD: The Company's principal word processing program is Microsoft
Word. Versions of Microsoft Word provide all the features that users of word
processing products expect in a graphical environment, plus the ability to
handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and images imported from
other software programs.

MICROSOFT EXCEL: The Company's spreadsheet program is Microsoft Excel. It is an
integrated spreadsheet with pivot table, database, and business graphics
capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and embedding of objects that
permits users to view and edit graphics or charts from other programs in the
worksheet in which the object is stored. Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities
can be linked to its spreadsheets to allow simultaneous changes to charts as
changes are made to the spreadsheets.

MICROSOFT POWERPOINT: Microsoft PowerPoint is a presentation graphics program
for producing transparencies, slides, overheads, and prints.

MICROSOFT PROJECT: Microsoft Project is a critical path project scheduling and
resource allocation program. The product can perform as a budgeting, monitoring,
and cost estimating tool for large business projects and as a critical path and
schedule planning tool.

OTHER PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTS: The Company also offers other productivity
products, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Publisher, and Microsoft
FrontPage. Microsoft Works is an integrated software program that contains basic
word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy
exchange of information from one tool to another. Microsoft Publisher is an
easy-to-use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Microsoft FrontPage is a
Web authoring and management tool for Web sites on the Internet or intranets.


INTERACTIVE MEDIA PRODUCTS

The Microsoft Interactive Media Division develops and markets interactive
entertainment and information products across a variety of media, including the
Internet, The Microsoft Network, and CD-ROM.

INFORMATION: Reference titles include Microsoft Encarta(TM) and Microsoft
Bookshelf(R). The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends text in
articles with a wealth of innovative, interactive information presented through
animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf is a
multimedia reference library that integrates seven well-respected and
authoritative works, including a dictionary, world atlas, world almanac,
thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books of quotations.

Personal interest titles include Microsoft Cinemania(TM), an interactive guide
to the movies with entries for 19,000 films, Microsoft Dinosaurs, and many
musical titles.

Geography and travel products include Automap Road Atlas, a comprehensive
route-planning program with detailed maps and road information for routes in
North America.

KIDS: Titles for children include Microsoft Creative Writer and Microsoft Fine
Artist. Creative Writer is a full-featured creative writing and publishing
program; Fine Artist is a comprehensive art program. Both products take
advantage of the computer's ability to integrate text, high-quality graphics,
sound, and animation to produce an enriching creative experience for children.
The Company also has a series of products based on the popular children's books
and television series, The Magic School Bus.





                                       4
<PAGE>   7






ENTERTAINMENT: The Company also has a line of entertainment products. Microsoft
Flight Simulator is a popular aircraft flight simulation product available for
MS-DOS and Macintosh operating systems. Games include Space Simulator, Microsoft
Golf, Microsoft Fury(3), and Microsoft Arcade. Most games are available for the
Windows 95 environment.

THE MICROSOFT NETWORK: The Microsoft Network is an interactive online service.
MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users to a wide range of
graphically-rich online content, a compelling business model and platform for
independent content providers (ICPs), and rich and powerful development tools.
The online service provides access to the Internet, electronic mail, bulletin
boards, and a myriad of additional services offered by Microsoft and by ICPs.
Content and service providers aligned with MSN have flexibility in creating
products and pricing their services, such as subscriptions, online transactions,
and ticket events. Services may be supported by advertising and commerce.

MSN is owned by The Microsoft Network L.L.C. Microsoft owns 80% of the entity
while a wholly owned subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) owns the
remaining 20%.

JOINT VENTURES: The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements to
leverage creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns
50% of DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C., a software company that develops
interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the remaining 50%.
Microsoft owns 50% of MSNBC Cable L.L.C., a 24-hour cable news and information
channel; and 50% of MSNBC Interactive News L.L.C., an interactive online news
service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining 50% of these two
joint ventures.


PC INPUT DEVICES

The Company's major input device is the Microsoft Mouse, a hand-held pointing
device that facilitates use of a PC. It can be used with MS-DOS and Windows
operating systems and works with most applications products from Microsoft and
other companies. Microsoft also offers a mouse designed for the home and a mouse
for young children. The Company also markets the Microsoft Natural Keyboard(TM),
an ergonomically-designed keyboard. Additionally, Microsoft sells two versions
of Sidewinder(TM), a joystick for games.


DESKTOP FINANCE

Microsoft Money is a financial organization product that allows users to
computerize their household finances. Microsoft Money is available for systems
running Windows 95. It is visually appealing, easy to use, and focuses on the
financial tasks that people do most often. Microsoft Money provides enhanced
online home-banking services with 17 different banks in the U.S. Users who are
customers of participating banks are able to pay bills online, access up-to-date
statements and balances, transfer funds, and send email messages and inquiries
to their banks.


MICROSOFT PRESS

Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and other
software developers and about current developments in the industry. Books
published by Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted by
independent authors who submit their manuscripts to the Company for publication
and who receive royalties based on net revenues generated by the book.

Microsoft Press contracts with an independent commercial printer for the
manufacturing of its books. Publisher's Resources, Inc. acts as the Company's
main fulfillment house in the United States, maintaining the majority of the
inventory of Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed by independent sales
representatives and by Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally,
Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the
worldwide distribution of its books. Microsoft Press has granted a publisher in
England the right to distribute English language versions of its books in all
countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and
certain Asian countries. In most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher
with a book's manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the
printing, marketing, and distribution of the translated version.






                                       5
<PAGE>   8







PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

The PC software industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological
change, which requires constant attention to software technology trends and
shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace of change has
recently become even greater due to the surge of interest in the Internet, other
forms of online services, networking generally, and new programming languages,
such as Java.

Most of the Company's software products are developed internally. The Company
also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees
third party development for certain products. Internal development enables
Microsoft to maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the
Company the freedom to designate which modifications and enhancements are most
important and when they should be implemented. The Company has created a
substantial body of proprietary development tools and has evolved development
methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and
methodologies are also designed to simplify a product's portability among
different operating systems, microprocessors, or computers. Product
documentation is generally created internally.

The Company believes that a crucial factor in the success of a new product is
getting it to market quickly to respond to new user needs or advances in PCs,
servers, peripherals, and the Internet, without compromising product quality.
The Company strives to become as informed as possible at the earliest possible
time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect
software design.

During fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996, the Company spent $610 million, $860
million, and $1,432 million, respectively, on product research and development
activities. Those amounts represented 13.1%, 14.5%, and 16.5%, respectively, of
net revenues in each of those years. The Company is committed to continued high
expenditures for research and product development.


LOCALIZATION

In order to best serve the needs of users in foreign countries, Microsoft
"localizes" many of its products to reflect local languages and conventions. In
France, for example, all user messages and documentation are in French and all
monetary references are in French francs, and in the United Kingdom, monetary
references are in British pounds and user messages and documentation reflect
certain British conventions. Various Microsoft products have been localized into
more than 30 languages.


MANUFACTURING

Microsoft contracts a substantial portion of its manufacturing activity to third
parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged
products, documentation, and hardware such as mouse pointing devices, keyboards,
and joysticks. There are other custom manufacturers in the event that outsourced
manufacturing becomes unavailable from current sources.

In recent years the Company's sales mix has shifted to corporate and OEM
licenses from packaged products. Online distribution of software may increase in
the future. During July 1996, Microsoft sold its domestic manufacturing and
distribution operation.

The Company's remaining manufacturing facilities are located in Puerto Rico and
Ireland. The Irish manufacturing facility replicates disks, assembles other
purchased parts, and packages final product. The Puerto Rican facility
manufactures CD-ROMs, assembles other purchased parts, and packages final
product. Quality control tests are performed on purchased parts, finished disks
and CD-ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used in
Microsoft products include disks or CD-ROMs, books, and multicolor printed
materials. The Company is often able to acquire component parts and materials on
a volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials,
supplies, and components.






                                       6
<PAGE>   9







MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing people with several customer types,
including end-users, organizations and enterprises, and OEMs. The Company's
sales and marketing staff seeks to build long-term relationships with customers
of Microsoft products. In addition to the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major
geographic sales and marketing organizations: the U.S. and Canada, Europe, and
elsewhere in the world (Other International).

The end-user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
end-users who make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use at work or
home. Most sales and marketing activities aimed at end-user customers are
performed by this unit, including developing and administering reseller
relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and
promotions; end-user marketing programs; support policies; and seminars, events,
and sales training for resellers. The key products licensed and sold are the
Company's desktop operating systems, desktop applications, and interactive media
products.

The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
groups of users in small and medium organizations. The unit works with channel
partners such as distributors, aggregators, value-added resellers, and Solution
Providers to provide complete business solutions to this customer segment. The
unit's sales and marketing activities include providing technical training of
Solution Providers and channel resellers; developing support policies; and
supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for channel
partners.

The enterprise customer unit has responsibility for sales and marketing
activities that target large organizations (enterprises). The unit works
directly with these organizations, and through large account resellers, to
create enterprisewide, mission critical solutions to business computing
problems.

Key products for the organization and enterprise customer units are the
Company's business systems; applications and Internet developer software;
desktop productivity applications; and desktop operating systems.

The OEM customer unit includes the sales force which works with original
equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software on their PCs.


FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS

DISTRIBUTORS AND RESELLERS: The Company markets its products in the finished
goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors and
resellers. Distributors include Computer 2000, Ingram Micro, Tech Data, and
Merisel. Resellers include Egghead Software, Softbank, Software Spectrum, and
Stream International. Microsoft has a network of field sales representatives and
field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and
provide product training and sales support.

LARGE ACCOUNTS: The Company has a program designed to make it easier for large
organizations to acquire and maintain Microsoft products. The program, Microsoft
Select, offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options
specially designed to meet the needs of large multinational organizations.
Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end-users in
large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated
with the Microsoft network of large account resellers.

SOLUTION PROVIDERS: Microsoft's Solution Providers program is a comprehensive
support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and
system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for
business computing solutions. The program supports value-added resellers (VARs),
system integrators, consultants, custom application developers, solution
developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content
providers, and sitebuilders (companies that build Web sites for other
companies), as well as technical support and training organizations. Under this
business partnership strategy, the Company provides sales and product
information, development services, early access to Microsoft products, and
customer support tools including priority telephone support, education, and
business development support. To ensure high-quality technical services for the
Company's products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required to have
Microsoft-certified professionals on staff.

CONSULTING SERVICES: The Company's Consulting Services Division assists
customers in using the Company's computer operating systems, applications, and
communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps
create enterprisewide computing solutions for large corporate accounts.

DIRECT MARKETING: Microsoft promotes some of its products through direct
marketing techniques directed toward existing and potential users of the
Company's products. Promotional materials are typically delivered through the



                                       7
<PAGE>   10






mail, utilizing lists of targeted individuals. Fulfillment of product to the
end-user is accomplished by either direct shipment or through resellers.

INTERNATIONAL SALES SITES: The Company has established marketing and/or support
subsidiaries in more than 60 countries. Sales are generally made by the local
sales subsidiary, while product is delivered by either the Company's owned or
outsourced manufacturing operations. In some locations, sales are made directly
by the Company from the U.S.

The Company's international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject
to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as governmental
regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Microsoft hedges a portion of its foreign exchange risk.


OEM CHANNEL

The Company's operating systems are licensed primarily to OEMs under agreements
that grant the OEMs the right to distribute copies of Microsoft's products with
their computers. The Company also markets certain desktop applications and
interactive media programs to OEMs under similar arrangements. In addition, the
Company markets the Microsoft Mouse and Natural Keyboard to OEMs for
distribution to buyers of their computers. In almost all cases, the products are
distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering
one or more of its products with virtually all of the major PC OEMs, including
AST Research, Acer, Compaq, Digital Equipment Corporation, Dell, Fujitsu,
Gateway 2000, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC, Olivetti, Packard Bell, Siemens,
Toshiba, and Vobis.


ADVERTISING

The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms.
Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are
targeted to various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer media
(television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft
has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for
certain advertising expenditures. Microsoft also invests in direct marketing and
customer satisfaction areas. The Company maintains a broad advertising campaign
emphasizing the Microsoft brand identity.


CUSTOMERS

As described above, Microsoft has four customer types: end-users, organizations,
enterprises, and OEMs. Most end-users of Microsoft products are individuals in
businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and at home. These
end-users obtain Microsoft products primarily through distributors, resellers,
and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their hardware. Notes to
Financial Statements (see Item 8) describe customers that represent more than
10% of the Company's revenues. The Company's practice is to ship its products
promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from its customers and, consequently,
backlog is not significant.


PRODUCT SUPPORT

The Company provides product support coverage options to meet the needs of users
of Microsoft products. Support personnel are located in various sites in the
U.S. and in various Microsoft subsidiaries. Certain support is also supplied by
qualified third-party support organizations. The Company hires individuals with
product expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product
education and training, and consistent processes to deliver quality support for
Microsoft products. Coverage options range from standard no-charge toll
telephone support to fee-based offerings providing unlimited 800 number
telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products 24 hours
per day, 7 days per week.

Users have access to Microsoft KnowledgeBase, a library of thousands of
technical articles that is updated regularly with useful information regarding
Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access to KnowledgeBase via MSN, America
Online, CompuServe, GEnie, Prodigy, and the Internet. Additionally, the Company
offers two information subscription services: Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft
Developer Network.





                                       8
<PAGE>   11






As a supplement or alternative to direct support, the Company enhances the third
party support channel by providing Microsoft Solution Providers with education,
training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solution Providers include Authorized
Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification on
Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide a wide
spectrum of multinational support, multivendor support, and integration
services.


COMPETITION

The PC software business is intensely competitive and subject to extremely rapid
technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition in all areas of its
business activity (including competition from many companies much larger than
Microsoft). The extremely rapid pace of technological change constantly creates
new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render
existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces constant
competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute
Microsoft's copyrighted software products.

THE INTERNET: The Company faces intense competition in the development and
marketing of Internet (and intranet) software from a wide variety of companies
and organizations including IBM, Netscape, Novell, Oracle, O'Reilly, Sun
Microsystems, Apache Group, the National Center for Supercomputing Applications
(NCSA), and the European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN).

OPERATING SYSTEMS: Microsoft's operating system products face substantial
competition from a wide variety of companies. Major competitors such as IBM,
Apple Computer, Digital Equipment Corporation, Hewlett-Packard, Sun
Microsystems, and others, are vertically integrated in both software development
and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they
preinstall on computers of their own manufacture. Many of these operating system
software products are also licensed to third party OEMs for preinstallation on
their machines. Microsoft's operating system products compete with UNIX-based
operating systems from a wide range of companies including IBM, AT&T,
Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others.
Variants of UNIX run on a wide variety of computer platforms and have gained
increasing acceptance as desktop operating systems. As PC technology
increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications, Microsoft's operating
system products will face increased competition from network server operating
systems such as Novell NetWare, Banyan Vines, the many variants of UNIX, OS/2,
"middleware" products such as Lotus Notes from IBM, and intranet servers from
Netscape and others. In addition, Netscape is seeking to position its browser
software as a computing platform that would perform many of the functions
performed by operating systems from Microsoft and other vendors.

BUSINESS SYSTEMS: The Company is a fairly recent entrant into the business of
providing enterprisewide computing solutions. Several competitors enjoy a larger
share of sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system
software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, DEC,
Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are
typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantive support
services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for
PC-based distributed client/server environments include Oracle, Sybase, and
Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity
servers. As mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that
offer Internet and intranet server software which compete against the Company's
business systems. Additionally, IBM has a large installed base of Lotus Notes
and cc:Mail, both of which compete with the Company's workgroup and mail
products.

DESKTOP APPLICATIONS: The Company's competitors include many software
application vendors, such as IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Claris), and Corel. IBM
and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor
products, respectively, and both appear to have adopted aggressive pricing
strategies in recent months. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain of their
software products on various models of their PCs, competing directly with
Microsoft application software.

ONLINE SERVICES: An enormous range of companies, including media conglomerates,
telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and
software developers, are competing to make online services widely available to
computer users. Microsoft's new online services network, MSN, faces formidable
competition from both established online networks, such as America Online,
CompuServe, Prodigy, and impending entrants. MSN also faces competition from
online services that are offered to users directly via the Internet, including,
in particular, the World Wide Web.





                                       9
<PAGE>   12


INTERACTIVE MEDIA: The Company's Interactive Media division faces many smaller
but focused competitors, particularly in the areas of entertainment and
education. Many of these competitors have strong brand identification.
Consolidation in this area of software development has made certain competitors
even stronger. Examples of competitors include Intuit, Broderbund, Electronic
Arts, Softkey (including The Learning Company and Compton's), Voyager, Edmark,
CUC International (including Sierra On Line and Davidson Associates), and
Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such as Disney
and Lucas Arts. Additionally, as platforms become more powerful, PC-based games
will compete head-to-head with games created for proprietary systems such as
Nintendo and Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer
manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with a keyboard and mouse, and
other manufacturers of these devices.

NEWS SERVICES: The Company's MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition
from another, more established 24-hour cable and Internet news organization,
CNN. Additionally, the Fox network has announced plans for its own 24-hour cable
news service. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such as
newspapers and broadcast TV, and Internet news services.

DEVELOPER: The Company's developer products compete against offerings from
Borland, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and many other companies.

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in marketing PC
software are a product's features and functions, ease of use, reliability, price
relative to performance, timeliness of delivery, reputation, and availability
and quality of support services. There is no assurance that the Company's
competitive position will not be adversely affected by one or more of these
factors in the future, particularly in view of the fast pace of technological
change in the software industry.


EMPLOYEES

As of June 30, 1996, the Company employed 20,561 people on a full-time basis,
13,991 domestically and 6,570 internationally. Of the total, 6,861 were in
product research and development, 10,097 in sales, marketing, and support, 1,485
in manufacturing and distribution, and 2,118 in finance and administration.
Microsoft's success is highly dependent on its ability to attract and retain
qualified employees. Competition for employees is intense in the software
industry. To date, the Company believes it has been successful in its efforts to
recruit qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue to
be as successful in the future. None of the Company's employees are subject to
collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its
employees are excellent.

Item 2.  Properties

The Company's corporate offices consist of approximately 3.1 million square feet
of office building space located in King County, Washington. There are two sites
that total approximately 300 acres of land. The Company is constructing three
office buildings comprising approximately 350,000 square feet of space, which
are expected to be completed in the summer of 1997. Additionally, construction
is continuing on another series of office buildings with approximately 565,000
square feet of space. Occupancy on this site will be phased starting in the
winter of 1997 and completed by spring of 1998. The Company owns all of its
corporate campus.

The Company sold its domestic manufacturing and distribution operation in
Snohomish County, Washington, in July 1996 but retains a 45,000 square foot disk
duplication facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which
began operation in April 1990, is leased under a 10-year lease, with an option
to renew for an additional 10 years. The Company's European manufacturing
operation consists of a 161,000 square foot facility situated on 12 acres in
Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes office buildings with 157,000
square feet for international localization. The Ireland facilities are fully
owned by the Company.

The Company is constructing an office building complex with 225,000 square feet
on 33 acres of land near Redding, England. Occupancy is expected in the fall of
1997. In Les Ulis, France, the Company owns a 199,000 square foot office
building on four acres of land. In addition, the Company leases office space in
numerous locations in the United States and many other countries.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

In connection with an ongoing investigation, the Antitrust Division of the U.S.
Department of Justice requested information from Microsoft in September 1996
concerning Web browsers. Management currently believes that resolution of this
matter will not have a material adverse impact on its financial position or
results of operations.

Additionally, the information set forth in Notes to Financial
Statements--Commitments and Contingencies on page 27 of the 1996 Annual Report
to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.4.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1996.


                                       10
<PAGE>   13






                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information set forth on page 28 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.1.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The information set forth on page 4 of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.2.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

The information set forth on pages 16-19, 22, and 23 of the 1996 Annual Report
to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.3.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors'
report set forth on pages 14, 15, 20, 21, 24-29, and 31 of the 1996 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith
as Exhibit 13.4.

   -   Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1996

   -   Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1996

   -   Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1995 and 1996

   -   Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1996

   -   Notes to Financial Statements

   -   Independent Auditors' Report

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosures

None.





                                       11
<PAGE>   14






                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information with respect to Directors may be found under the caption "Election
of Directors and Management Information" on pages 1 and 2 of the Company's Proxy
Statement dated September 27, 1996, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held November 12, 1996 (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information is incorporated
herein by reference.

The executive officers of Microsoft as of September 9, 1996 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     NAME                          AGE    POSITION WITH THE COMPANY

<S>                                <C>    <C>                                                
     William H. Gates              40     Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer
     Steven A. Ballmer             40     Executive Vice President, Sales and Support
     Robert J. Herbold             54     Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer
     Frank M. (Pete) Higgins       38     Group Vice President, Applications and Content
     Paul A. Maritz                41     Group Vice President, Platforms
     Nathan P. Myhrvold            37     Group Vice President, Applications and Content
     Jeffrey S. Raikes             38     Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing
     James E. Allchin              44     Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems Division
     Joachim Kempin                54     Senior Vice President, OEM Sales
     Craig J. Mundie               47     Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division
     William H. Neukom             54     Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary
     Brad A. Silverberg            42     Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools Division
     Patricia Q. Stonesifer        40     Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division
     Bernard P. Vergnes            51     Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe
     Michael W. Brown              50     Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer
</TABLE>

Mr. Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 and has been its Chief Executive Officer
and Chairman of the Board since the original partnership was incorporated in
1981.

Mr. Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support in February
1992. He had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since 1989. From 1984
until 1989, Mr. Ballmer served as Vice President, Systems Software. He joined
Microsoft in 1980.

Mr. Herbold joined Microsoft as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer in November 1994. Mr. Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company
since 1968, with experience in information services, advertising and market
research. Most recently, he was P&G's Senior Vice President, Information
Services and Advertising.

Mr. Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content in May
1995. He was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division in March
1993. He had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since 1992 and
previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since 1991. Mr. Higgins
joined Microsoft in 1983.

Mr. Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms in May 1995. He was named
Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy in November 1994 and had
been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February 1992. He had been
Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since 1989. Mr. Maritz joined
Microsoft in 1986.

Mr. Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content in May
1995. He was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology in July 1993. He
had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since
1989. Mr. Myhrvold joined Microsoft in 1986.

Mr. Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing in July 1996. He
was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America in January 1992 and had
been Vice President, Office Systems since 1990. Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in
1981.





                                       12
<PAGE>   15






Mr. Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Desktop and Business Systems
Division in February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems
Division in November 1994 and had been Vice President, Business Systems
Division, since July 1991. Mr. Allchin joined Microsoft in 1991.

Mr. Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales in August 1993. He had
been Vice President, OEM Sales since 1987. Mr. Kempin joined Microsoft in 1983.

Mr. Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division in
February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division in
May 1995 and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July
1993. He joined Microsoft as General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group
in December 1992. Previously, Mr. Mundie had been CEO of Alliant Computer
Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy on May 25, 1992 and was
liquidated.

Mr. Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs in
February 1994. He joined Microsoft in 1985 as Vice President.

Mr. Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Internet Platform and Tools
Division in February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems
Division in November 1994 after joining Microsoft in August 1990 as Vice
President, Personal Operating Systems Division.

Ms. Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Interactive Media Division in
February 1996. She was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division in
November 1994, after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June
1993. She had been Vice President, Support since 1992 and General Manager of
Product Support Services since 1991. Ms. Stonesifer joined Microsoft in 1988.

Mr. Vergnes is a Senior Vice President of Microsoft and was named President,
Microsoft Europe in April 1992. He had been Vice President, Europe since 1989.
Mr. Vergnes joined Microsoft in 1983.

Mr. Brown was named Chief Financial Officer in August 1994 and Vice President,
Finance in April 1993. He was named Treasurer shortly after joining Microsoft in
January 1990.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information
Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" on pages 4 through 8 and "Information
Regarding the Board and its Committees" on page 2 is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial
Ownership of Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" on page 3 of the
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

None.





                                       13
<PAGE>   16
                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  Financial Statements and Schedules

       The financial statements as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form
       10-K are incorporated herein by reference.

       Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not
       required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

       No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of fiscal 1996.

(c)  Exhibit Listing

           Exhibit
           Number     Description

             3.1      Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)

             3.2      Bylaws (1)

            10.1      Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan (1)

            10.2      Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (2)

            10.3      Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee 
                      Directors (1)

            10.4      Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants 
                      and Advisors (1)

            10.5      Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase 
                      Plan (3)

            10.6      Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (1)

            10.7      Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft 
                      Corporation and First Interstate Bank of Washington (4)

            10.8      Form of Indemnification Agreement (4)

            11.       Computation of Earnings Per Share

            13.1      Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference
                      to Page 28 of 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders ("1996
                      Annual Report")

            13.2      Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to Page 
                      4 of 1996 Annual Report

            13.3      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                      Condition and Results of Operations Incorporated by
                      Reference to Pages 16-19, 22, and 23 of 1996 Annual Report

            13.4      Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 
                      14, 15, 20, 21, 24-29, and 31 of 1996 Annual Report

            21.       Subsidiaries of Registrant (5)

            23.       Independent Auditors' Consent

            27.       Financial Data Schedule

            99.1      Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation 1991 
                      Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended 
                      June 30, 1996
- ----------------
(1)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
     Ended June 30, 1994.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form
     S-8.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
     Year Ended June 30, 1995.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
     Year Ended June 30, 1993.

(5)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.

                                       14
<PAGE>   17






SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Redmond,
State of Washington, on September 26, 1996.

                              MICROSOFT CORPORATION


                              By    /s/ Michael W. Brown
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                        Michael W. Brown
                              Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant and in
the capacities indicated on September 26, 1996.

          SIGNATURE                                 TITLE

    /s/ William H. Gates
- -----------------------------
      William H. Gates                 Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                            and Chief Executive Officer
      /s/ Paul G. Allen
- -----------------------------
        Paul G. Allen                              Director

- -----------------------------
        Jill E. Barad                              Director

  /s/ Richard A. Hackborn
- -----------------------------
     Richard A. Hackborn                           Director

   /s/ David F. Marquardt
- -----------------------------
     David F. Marquardt                            Director

    /s/ Robert D. O'Brien
- -----------------------------
      Robert D. O'Brien                            Director

    /s/ Wm. G. Reed, Jr.
- -----------------------------
      Wm. G. Reed, Jr.                             Director

     /s/ Jon A. Shirley
- -----------------------------
       Jon A. Shirley                              Director

    /s/ Michael W. Brown
- -----------------------------
      Michael W. Brown                       Vice President, Finance; Chief
                                             Financial Officer (Principal
                                             Financial and Accounting Officer)








                                       15
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                     EXHIBIT 11.

COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                Year Ended June 30
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                              1994        1995        1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                       <C>         <C>         <C>
Weighted average common shares outstanding                                     571         582         592

Common equivalent shares from stock options                                     39          45          48
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Average common and equivalent shares outstanding (1)                           610         627         640
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net income                                                                  $1,146      $1,453      $2,195
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Earnings per share (1)                                                      $ 1.88      $ 2.32      $ 3.43
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


- ------------------

(1)  Fully diluted earnings per share have not been presented because the
     effects are not material.





                                        
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>QUARTERLY AND MARKET INFORMATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1






                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.1

QUARTERLY INFORMATION
(In millions, except per share data) (Unaudited)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Quarter Ended
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    Sept. 30     Dec. 31     Mar. 31     June 30       Year
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>    
1994
Net revenues                                         $   983     $ 1,129     $ 1,244     $ 1,293     $ 4,649
Operating income                                         343         415         480         488       1,726
Net income                                               239         289         256         362       1,146
Earnings per share                                      0.39        0.48        0.42        0.59        1.88
Common stock price per share:
  High                                                44-1/4      43-1/4      44-5/8      54-5/8      54-5/8
  Low                                                 35-1/8          38          39          41      35-1/8
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1995
Net revenues                                         $ 1,247     $ 1,482     $ 1,587     $ 1,621     $ 5,937
Operating income                                         437         520         549         532       2,038
Net income                                               316         373         396         368       1,453
Earnings per share                                      0.51        0.60        0.63        0.58        2.32
Common stock price per share:
  High                                                59-1/4      65-1/8      74-1/8      92-3/8      92-3/8
  Low                                                 46-7/8      53-7/8      58-1/4      68-3/4      46-7/8
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1996
Net revenues                                         $ 2,016     $ 2,195     $ 2,205     $ 2,255     $ 8,671
Operating income                                         708         786         774         810       3,078
Net income                                               499         575         562         559       2,195
Earnings per share                                      0.78        0.90        0.88        0.87        3.43
Common stock price per share:
  High                                               109-1/4     103-3/8    107-1/16     125-7/8     125-7/8
  Low                                                     85      80-3/8      79-7/8      99-5/8      79-7/8
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Company's common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
MSFT. On July 31, 1996, there were 37,883 holders of record of the Company's
common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock.





                                       
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.2
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1






                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.2

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended June 30
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1992         1993         1994         1995         1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>   
Net revenues                                          $2,759       $3,753       $4,649       $5,937      $ 8,671
Net income                                               708          953        1,146        1,453        2,195
Earnings per share                                      1.20         1.57         1.88         2.32         3.43
Return on net revenues                                  25.7%        25.4%        24.7%        24.5%        25.3%
Cash and short-term investments                       $1,345       $2,290       $3,614       $4,750      $ 6,940
Total assets                                           2,640        3,805        5,363        7,210       10,093
Stockholders' equity                                   2,193        3,242        4,450        5,333        6,908
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>





                                      
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.3
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1






                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.3


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR 1994, 1995, AND 1996

Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports a wide range of
software products, including operating systems for personal computers (PCs) and
servers, server applications for client/server environments, business and
consumer productivity applications, interactive media programs, and Internet
platform and development tools. Microsoft also offers online services, sells
personal computer books and input devices, and researches and develops advanced
technology software products.


NET REVENUES

The Company's net revenues grew 28% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995 and
46% in fiscal year 1996. Software license volume increases have been the
principal factor in Microsoft's revenue growth. The average selling price per
license has decreased, primarily because of general shifts in the sales mix from
retail packaged products to licensing programs, from new products to product
upgrades, and from stand-alone desktop applications to integrated product
suites. Average revenue per license from original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
licenses and corporate license programs, such as Microsoft Select, is lower than
average revenue per license from retail versions. Likewise, product upgrades
have lower prices than new products. Also, prices of integrated suites, such as
Microsoft Office, are less than the sum of the prices for the individual
programs included in these suites when such programs are licensed separately.

PRODUCT GROUPS. Microsoft has a Platforms Product Group and an Applications and
Content Product Group.

Platforms Product Group revenues were $1.83 billion, $2.36 billion, and $4.11
billion in 1994, 1995, and 1996.

The Company's principal desktop operating system product in 1996 was Microsoft
Windows 95. Released in August 1995, Windows 95 was a successor to MS-DOS(R) and
Microsoft Windows 3.X operating systems. Windows 95, and before its release,
MS-DOS and Windows 3.X, were preinstalled on PCs by most OEMs. Desktop operating
systems increasingly contributed to revenues as new PCs preinstalled with such
systems increased rapidly during the three-year period. Additionally, retail
sales of Windows 95 were a major factor in the platforms revenue increase in
1996, reflecting the typical sales pattern for operating systems upgrades.

Business systems products offer an enterprise-wide distributed client/server
environment based on the Microsoft Windows NT operating system and the server
applications in the Microsoft BackOffice family of products. Revenues from these
products increased strongly in 1994, 1995, and 1996 due to greater corporate
demand for Windows NT Workstation and Windows NT Server.

During 1996, Microsoft implemented its policy of offering customers the latest
Internet technology at no additional cost. Given this strategy, and because
Internet browsers are a fundamental and integral part of Windows-based operating
systems, ratable revenue recognition is required for a portion of all
Windows-based operating system license fees, including those licensed through
retail and OEM channels. Unearned revenues as of June 30, 1996 on the
accompanying balance sheet include $425 million for future support commitments,
Internet browser updates, and other unspecified enhancements to Windows-based
operating systems that will be recognized ratably over the products' life
cycles.

Revenues from developer products increased steadily in all three years, as more
independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions developers
licensed tools such as the Microsoft Visual Basic(R) programming system to
develop software for Windows 95, Windows NT, and the Internet.

Applications and Content Product Group revenues were $2.82 billion, $3.58
billion, and $4.56 billion in 1994, 1995, and 1996.

Increases in desktop applications revenues were led by strong sales of 16-bit
and 32-bit versions of Microsoft Office. The Microsoft Office Standard product
includes the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet; Microsoft Word, a word-



                                       
<PAGE>   2






processing program; and the Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program.
The Microsoft Office for Windows 95 (32-bit) version also includes the Microsoft
Schedule+ calendar and scheduling program. Microsoft Office Professional version
includes all of the above plus the Microsoft Access database management system.
Sales of stand-alone versions of Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word continued to
decrease as the sales mix shifted to integrated product suites. Sales of
Microsoft Project and Microsoft Works also increased during the three-year
period.

Microsoft licenses a broad range of consumer software products, which also
showed continued growth. Products include CD-ROM multimedia reference titles and
programs for home and small office productivity, children's creativity, and
entertainment.

The Company also markets input devices. Mouse and keyboard sales increased
during the three-year period, while the joystick's initial introduction
increased revenues in 1996.

SALES CHANNELS. The Company distributes its products primarily through OEM
licenses, corporate licenses, and retail packaged products. OEM channel revenues
are license fees from original equipment manufacturers. Microsoft has three
major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the United States and
Canada, Europe, and elsewhere in the world (Other International). Sales of
corporate licenses and packaged products in these channels are primarily to
distributors and resellers.

OEM channel revenues were $1.18 billion in 1994, $1.65 billion in 1995, and
$2.50 billion in 1996. The primary source of OEM revenues is the licensing of
desktop operating systems. As such, OEM channel revenues are highly dependent on
PC shipment volume.

Corporate licenses continued to grow in popularity across all geographic areas
during the three-year period. Packaged product volume increased in 1996 due to
the release of retail upgrade versions of Windows 95 and 32-bit desktop
applications. U.S. and Canadian channel revenues were $1.58 billion, $1.88
billion, and $2.68 billion in 1994, 1995, and 1996. Revenues in Europe were
$1.36 billion, $1.49 billion, and $2.02 billion in 1994, 1995, and 1996. Growth
rates have been lower in Europe than in other geographic areas due to general
economic slowness, higher existing market shares, and a more dramatic shift to
corporate licensing programs. Other International channel revenues were $532
million in 1994, $924 million in 1995, and $1.47 billion in 1996. Growth rates
continue to be strong due to customers accepting newly localized products,
particularly in Japan, and early entrance into emerging markets.

The Company's operating results are affected by foreign exchange rates.
Approximately 40%, 37%, and 38% of the Company's revenues were collected in
foreign currencies during 1994, 1995, and 1996. Since much of the Company's
international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred in
local currencies, the impact of exchange rates on net income is less than on
revenues.


OPERATING EXPENSES

COST OF REVENUES. As a percentage of revenues, cost of revenues was 16.4% in
1994, 14.8% in 1995, and 13.7% in 1996. The percentage decreased due to a
greater proportion of licenses to OEMs and corporations, a higher proportion of
CD-ROM versions, and manufacturing efficiencies. These factors were offset
somewhat by increased sales of lower-margin products such as integrated suites
and retail upgrades.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Microsoft invested heavily in the future by funding
research and development (R&D). Expense increases of 41% in 1995 and 67% in 1996
resulted primarily from development staff headcount growth and higher levels of
third-party development costs in many areas, including development efforts for
Windows 95 in 1995 and Windows NT and the Internet in 1996. R&D costs also
increased for business systems, consumer systems, desktop applications, and
interactive media products such as The Microsoft Network and other online
services.

SALES AND MARKETING. The increase in the absolute dollar amount of sales and
marketing expenses in the three-year period was due primarily to increased
product-specific marketing programs, particularly for Windows 95 during 1996.
Also, expenses increased due to higher levels of Microsoft brand advertising and
product support.





                                       
<PAGE>   3






GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE. Increases in general and administrative expenses
were primarily attributable to growth in the number of people and computer
systems necessary to support overall increases in the scope of the Company's
operations.


NONOPERATING ITEMS

Interest income increased primarily as a result of a larger investment portfolio
generated by cash from operations. Other expenses increased in 1996 due to
recognition of Microsoft's share of joint venture operational expenses,
including DreamWorks Interactive and the MSNBC entities. During 1995, Microsoft
paid a $46 million breakup fee to Intuit Inc. in connection with the termination
of a planned merger. During 1994, the Company recorded a net pretax charge of
$90 million, reflecting the patent litigation settlement with Stac Electronics.


PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

The effective tax rate was 33.5% in 1994, 33.0% in 1995, and 35.0% in 1996. The
1996 increase was primarily attributable to the research and experimental credit
expiring in the United States.


NET INCOME

Net income as a percent of revenues increased in 1996 due to the lower relative
cost of revenues, sales and marketing expenses, general and administrative
expenses, and nonoperating expenses, offset by higher relative research and
development expenses and the higher tax rate. The net income percentage
decreased in 1995 due to increased relative research and development, sales and
marketing, and general and administrative expenses, offset by the lower relative
cost of revenues and the higher relative net nonoperating income.


FINANCIAL CONDITION

The Company's cash and short-term investments equaled $6.94 billion at June 30,
1996. The portfolio is diversified among security types, industries, and
individual issuers. The Company's investments are generally investment grade and
liquid. The portfolio is invested predominantly in U.S. dollar denominated
securities, but also includes foreign currency positions in anticipation of
continued international expansion. The Company's portfolio is primarily invested
in short-term securities to minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid
deployment in the event of immediate cash needs.

Microsoft has no material long-term debt. The Company has $70 million of standby
multicurrency lines of credit that support foreign currency hedging and
international cash management.

Stockholders' equity at June 30, 1996 exceeded $6.9 billion.

Cash generated from operations has been sufficient historically to fund the
Company's investment in research and development activities and facilities
expansion. As the Company grows, investments will continue in research and
development in existing and advanced areas of technology. The Company's cash
will also be used to acquire technology and to fund ventures and other strategic
opportunities. Additions to property, plant, and equipment are expected to
continue, including facilities and computer systems for research and
development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. On
June 30, 1996, commitments for constructing new buildings approximated $293
million.

Employees exercising stock options provides additional cash. These proceeds have
funded the Company's open market stock repurchase program through which
Microsoft provides shares for stock option and stock purchase plans. This
program will continue in 1997.

To enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sold equity put warrants to
independent third parties. These put warrants entitle the holders to sell shares
of Microsoft common stock to the Company on certain dates at specified prices.

A subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) owns a 20% minority interest in
The Microsoft Network. TCI contributed $125 million of TCI common stock, and
Microsoft contributed the business assets of this online service.





                                        
<PAGE>   4






During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
MSNBC joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel, and an
interactive online news service. Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a
five-year period for its interest in the cable venture and to pay one-half of
operational funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period.

Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds
generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating requirements in
1997. The Company's cash and short-term investments are also managed to be
available for strategic investment opportunities or other potential large-scale
cash needs that may arise in pursuing the Company's long-term strategies.

Microsoft shareholders have also authorized issuing up to 100 million shares of
preferred stock, which may be used for any proper corporate purpose.


OUTLOOK: ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES

Microsoft does not provide forecasts of future financial performance. While
Microsoft's management is optimistic about the Company's long-term prospects,
the following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in
evaluating its growth outlook.

RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE. The PC software industry is characterized by rapid
change and uncertainty due to new and emerging technologies. The pace of change
has recently accelerated due to the Internet, online services, networking, and
new programming languages, such as Java.

PC GROWTH RATES. The underlying PC unit growth rate, which may increase at a
slower rate in the future, impacts software revenue growth.

CUSTOMER ACCEPTANCE. While the Company performs extensive usability and beta
testing of new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates
ultimately dictate the success of development and marketing efforts.

PRODUCT SHIP SCHEDULES. Delays in new-product releases impact revenue growth
rates and can cause operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing and
distribution logistics, independent software vendor (ISV) and OEM relationships,
and telephone support staffing.

PRICES. Future prices the Company can obtain for its products may decrease from
historical levels, depending on competitive market or cost factors. European and
Far Eastern software prices are generally higher than in the United States to
cover localization costs and higher costs of distribution. Such price uplifts
could erode in the future.

EARNINGS PROCESS. An increasingly higher percentage of the Company's revenues is
earned after the initial shipment or licensing of the software product.
Microsoft also offers product support, Internet browsers and add-ons, and other
unspecified enhancements, so the applicable portion of revenues is recognized
over the product's life cycle. This policy may be required for future products
such as Microsoft Office 97, depending on specific license terms and conditions.

SATURATION. Product upgrades, which enable users to upgrade from earlier
versions of the Company's products or from competitors' products, have lower
prices and margins than new products. As the desktop applications market has
become saturated, the sales mix has shifted from standard products to upgrade
products. This trend is likely to continue.

CORPORATE LICENSES. Average revenue per unit from corporate license programs is
lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions shipped through the
finished goods channels. Unit sales under corporate licensing programs may
continue to increase.

CHANNEL MIX. Average revenue per license is lower from OEM licenses than from
retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs of operations in
the OEM channel. An increasingly higher percentage of revenues was achieved
through the OEM channel during 1995 and 1996.

INTEGRATED SUITES. The price of integrated suites, such as Microsoft Office, is
less than the sum of the prices for the individual programs included in these
suites when such programs are licensed separately. Revenues from integrated
suites may continue to increase as a percentage of total revenues.





                                       
<PAGE>   5






COST OF REVENUES. Although cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues
decreased in 1995 and 1996, it varies with channel mix and product mix within
channels. Such mix factors may increase cost of revenues as a percentage of
revenues in 1997.

PAY AND PARTICIPATION MODEL. Microsoft employees currently receive salaries,
incentive bonuses, other fringe benefits, and stock options. New government
regulations, low stock prices, or other factors could diminish the value of the
option program and force the Company into more of a cash compensation model. Had
the Company paid employees in cash the grant date Black-Scholes value of options
vested in 1994, 1995, and 1996, the pretax expense would have been approximately
$360 million, $410 million, and $570 million.

LONG-TERM RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT CYCLE. Developing and localizing
software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a
long payback cycle. The Company plans to continue significant investments in
software research and development and related product opportunities from which
significant revenues are not anticipated for a number of years. Management
expects total spending for research and development in 1997 to increase over
spending in 1996.

SALES AND MARKETING AND SUPPORT INVESTMENTS. The Company's plans for 1997
include continued investments in its sales and marketing and support groups.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE. A large percentage of the Company's sales, costs of
manufacturing, and marketing is transacted in local currencies. As a result, the
Company's international results of operations are subject to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual
property rights, but unlicensed copying of software represents a loss of
revenues to the Company. While this adversely affects U.S. revenues, revenue
loss is even more significant outside of the United States, particularly in
countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights.
Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers on the benefits of
licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers on the advantages of a
business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However,
continued efforts may not affect revenues positively.

FUTURE GROWTH RATE. The revenue growth rate in the first two quarters of 1997
may not approach the level attained in 1996, which was high due to Windows 95
upgrades. As discussed above, operating expenses are expected to increase in
1997. Because of the fixed nature of a significant portion of such expenses,
coupled with the possibility of slower revenue growth, operating margins in 1997
may decrease from those in 1996.

LITIGATION. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and
copyrights occurs in the PC software industry. In addition, there are government
regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate legal
risks.





                                       
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.4
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1






                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.4







                              MICROSOFT CORPORATION



                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS







Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1996

Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1996

Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1995 and 1996

Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1996

Notes to Financial Statements

Independent Auditors' Report




                                        
<PAGE>   2






INCOME STATEMENTS
(In millions, except earnings per share)







<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended June 30
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      1994         1995         1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                               <C>          <C>          <C>   
Net revenues                                                         $4,649       $5,937       $8,671
Operating expenses:
     Cost of revenues                                                   763          877        1,188
     Research and development                                           610          860        1,432
     Sales and marketing                                              1,384        1,895        2,657
     General and administrative                                         166          267          316
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total operating expenses                                     2,923        3,899        5,593
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                                      1,726        2,038        3,078
Interest income                                                         102          191          320
Noncontinuing items                                                     (90)         (46)          --
Other expenses                                                          (16)         (16)         (19)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                                            1,722        2,167        3,379
Provision for income taxes                                              576          714        1,184
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                           $1,146       $1,453       $2,195
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per share                                                   $ 1.88       $ 2.32       $ 3.43
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares outstanding                                     610          627          640
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.






<PAGE>   3






CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended June 30
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     1994         1995         1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>          <C>          <C>   

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS
     Net income                                                     $1,146       $1,453       $2,195
     Depreciation and amortization                                     237          269          480
     Current liabilities                                               360          419        1,090
     Accounts receivable                                              (146)         (91)         (71)
     Other current assets                                               (4)         (60)          25
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash from operations                                    1,593        1,990        3,719
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH FLOWS USED FOR FINANCING
     Common stock issued                                               280          332          504
     Common stock repurchased                                         (348)        (649)      (1,261)
     Stock option income tax benefits                                  151          179          352
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash used for financing                                    83         (138)        (405)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH FLOWS USED FOR INVESTMENTS
     Additions to property, plant, and equipment                      (278)        (495)        (494)
     Other assets                                                      (64)        (230)        (625)
     Short-term investments                                           (860)        (651)      (1,551)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash used for investments                              (1,202)      (1,376)      (2,670)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net change in cash and equivalents                                     474          476          644
Effect of exchange rates on cash                                       (10)           9           (5)
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year                              1,013        1,477        1,962
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and equivalents, end of year                                    1,477        1,962        2,601
Short-term investments                                               2,137        2,788        4,339
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and short-term investments                                     $3,614       $4,750       $6,940
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.






<PAGE>   4






BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  June 30
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                              1995         1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>        <C>     

ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and short-term investments                                            $4,750      $ 6,940
  Accounts receivable                                                           581          639
  Other                                                                         289          260
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current assets                                                      5,620        7,839
Property, plant, and equipment                                                1,192        1,326
Other assets                                                                    398          928
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total assets                                                           $7,210      $10,093
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable                                                           $  563      $   808
  Accrued compensation                                                          130          202
  Income taxes payable                                                          410          484
  Unearned revenues                                                              54          560
  Other                                                                         190          371
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current liabilities                                                 1,347        2,425
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Minority interest                                                               125          125
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Put warrants                                                                    405          635
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
  Common stock and paid-in capital -- shares authorized 2,000;
    shares issued and outstanding 588 and 597                                 2,005        2,924
  Retained earnings                                                           3,328        3,984
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total stockholders' equity                                                5,333        6,908
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                             $7,210      $10,093
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.






<PAGE>   5






STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY STATEMENTS
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Year Ended June 30
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      1994         1995         1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                               <C>          <C>          <C>   

COMMON STOCK AND PAID-IN CAPITAL
  Balance, beginning of year                                         $1,086       $1,500       $2,005
  Common stock issued                                                   280          332          504
  Common stock repurchased                                              (17)         (30)         (41)
  Proceeds from sale of put warrants                                     --           49          124
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                             --          (25)         (20)
  Stock option income tax benefits                                      151          179          352
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                              1,500        2,005        2,924
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RETAINED EARNINGS
  Balance, beginning of year                                          2,156        2,950        3,328
  Common stock repurchased                                             (331)        (668)      (1,344)
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                             --         (380)        (210)
  Net income                                                          1,146        1,453        2,195
  Equity adjustments                                                    (21)         (27)          15
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                              2,950        3,328        3,984
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total stockholders' equity                                     $4,450       $5,333       $6,908
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.







<PAGE>   6







NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES. The financial statements are prepared on a basis
consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and International
Accounting Standards formulated by the International Accounting Standards
Committee (IASC).

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION. The financial statements include the accounts of
Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated. Investments in 50% owned joint ventures are
accounted for using the equity method; the Company's share of joint ventures'
operating results is reflected in nonoperating expenses.

ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS. Preparing financial statements requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues, and expenses. Examples include provisions for returns and
bad debts and the length of product life cycles and buildings' lives. Actual
results may differ from these estimates.

FOREIGN CURRENCIES. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies on the
books of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate on the balance
sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged or
credited to equity. Revenues, costs, and expenses are translated at average
rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses on foreign
currency transactions are included in nonoperating expenses.

REVENUE RECOGNITION. Revenue from sales to distributors and resellers is
recognized when related products are shipped. Revenue from corporate license
programs generally is recognized when the user installs the product. Revenue
attributable to significant support (telephone support and unspecified
enhancements such as service packs and Internet browser updates) is recognized
ratably over the product's life cycle, which may exceed one year. Costs related
to insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain
products, are accrued.

Revenue from products licensed to original equipment manufacturers is recognized
when the OEM ships the licensed products.

Provisions are recorded for returns and bad debts.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Research and development costs are expensed as
incurred. The current U.S. accounting rule, Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect
the Company.

TELEPHONE SUPPORT. Telephone support costs are included in sales and marketing.

INCOME TAXES. Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes,
plus an accrual for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international
subsidiaries. Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax
returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of this
difference is reported as deferred income taxes. Tax credits are accounted for
as a reduction of tax expense in the year in which the credits reduce taxes
payable.

EARNINGS PER SHARE. Earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding plus the effect of outstanding stock
options, computed using the treasury stock method.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. The Company considers all liquid interest-earning
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to
be cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three
months and five years from the purchase date. All cash and short-term
investments are classified as available for sale and are recorded at market.
Cost approximates market for all classifications of cash and short-term
investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses are reflected in
stockholders' equity and are not material.

Equity securities are recorded at market in other assets; unrealized gains and
losses are reflected in stockholders' equity and are not material.

PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. Property, plant, and equipment is stated at cost
and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated
life of the asset or the lease term, ranging from one to 30 years.






<PAGE>   7






DIVERSIFICATION OF RISK. The Company's investment portfolio is diversified and
consists primarily of short-term investment grade securities. At June 30, 1995
and 1996, approximately 38% of accounts receivable represented amounts due from
ten channel purchasers. One customer accounted for approximately 13%, 12%, and
13% of revenues while another customer accounted for approximately 13%, 12%, and
8% of revenues in 1994, 1995, and 1996.

Finished goods sales to international customers in Europe, Japan, Australia, and
Canada are primarily billed in local currencies. Payment cycles are relatively
short, generally less than 90 days. European manufacturing costs and
international selling, distribution, and support costs are generally disbursed
in local currencies. Local currency cash balances in excess of short-term
operating needs are generally converted into U.S. dollar cash and short-term
investments upon receipt. Therefore, foreign exchange rate fluctuations
generally do not create a risk of material transaction gains or losses. As a
result, Microsoft's hedging activities for transaction exposures have been
minimal. No material hedge contracts were outstanding at June 30, 1996.

Foreign exchange rates affect the translated results of operations of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries. During 1995, 1996, and for 1997, the Company
hedged a percentage of planned translated international finished goods revenues
by purchasing options on the applicable currencies. Premiums paid for the
options were not material.

RECLASSIFICATIONS. Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent
presentation.

CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       June 30
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   1995         1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>         <C>     

Cash and equivalents:
Cash                                              $  135      $    64
Commercial paper                                   1,035        1,447
Money market preferreds                              255          105
Certificates of deposit                              492          768
Bank loan participations                              45          217
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and equivalents                               1,962        2,601
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term investments:
Municipal securities                               1,291        1,357
Corporate notes and bonds                            866        1,125
U.S. Treasury securities                             444        1,591
Commercial paper                                     187          266
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term investments                             2,788        4,339
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and short-term investments                   $4,750      $ 6,940
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       June 30
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   1995         1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>         <C>     
Land                                              $  206      $   183
Buildings                                            607          787
Computer equipment                                   707          885
Other                                                387          491
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment -- at cost          1,907        2,346
Accumulated depreciation                            (715)      (1,020)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment -- net             $1,192      $ 1,326
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

During 1995 and 1996, depreciation expense, of which the majority related to
computer equipment, was $227 million and $363 million; disposals were
immaterial.






<PAGE>   8





INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes consisted of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1994           1995        1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>        <C>   

Current taxes:
U.S. and state                             $470          $518       $1,139
International                                94           151          285
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current taxes                               564           669        1,424
Deferred taxes                               12            45         (240)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes                 $576          $714       $1,184
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Income taxes payable were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             June 30
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1995         1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>    

Deferred income tax assets:
Revenue items                                          $  25         $ 193
Expense items                                            189           322
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred income tax assets                               214           515
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred income tax liabilities:
International earnings                                  (201)         (261)
Other                                                     (5)           (6)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred income tax liabilities                         (206)         (267)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current income tax liabilities                          (418)         (732)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes payable                                   $(410)        $(484)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1994          1995         1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>           <C>          <C>   
U.S.                                     $1,281        $1,549       $2,356
International                               441           618        1,023
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes               $1,722        $2,167       $3,379
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Income taxes have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service for all years
through 1989. The IRS concluded its field examination of the Company's U.S.
income tax returns for 1990 and 1991 and has assessed taxes that the Company is
contesting in Tax Court. Management believes any related adjustments that might
be required will not be material to the financial statements. Income taxes paid
were $247 million, $430 million, and $758 million in 1994, 1995, and 1996.

COMMON STOCK

Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           1994          1995         1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>          <C>
Balance, beginning of year                  565           581          588
Issued                                       25            19           22
Repurchased                                  (9)          (12)         (13)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, end of year                        581           588          597
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Company repurchases its common stock in the open market to provide shares
for issuing to employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. The
Company's Board of Directors authorized continuation of this program in 1997.
<PAGE>   9






PUT WARRANTS

To enhance its stock repurchase program, the Company sold put warrants to
independent third parties during 1995 and 1996. These put warrants entitle the
holders to sell shares of Microsoft common stock to the Company at specified
prices, are exercisable only at maturity, and are settleable in cash at
Microsoft's option. On June 30, 1995 and 1996, 8.0 million and 13.0 million
warrants were outstanding. The outstanding warrants at June 30, 1996 expire on
various dates between December 1996 and December 1997 and have strike prices
ranging from $95 per share to $104 per share. The maximum potential repurchase
obligations of $405 million and $635 million at June 30, 1995 and 1996 have been
reclassified from stockholders' equity to put warrants. There was no impact on
earnings per share in 1995 or 1996.

EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN. The Company has an employee stock purchase plan
for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares of the Company's common stock
may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of the lower of the fair market
value on the first or the last day of each six-month period. Employees may
purchase shares having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation
during an offering period. During 1994, 1995, and 1996, employees purchased 1.0
million, 1.1 million, and .9 million shares at average prices of $34.16, $46.76,
and $75.44 per share. At June 30, 1996, 1.2 million shares were reserved for
future issuance.

SAVINGS PLAN. The Company has a savings plan, which qualifies under Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, participating U.S.
employees may defer up to 15% of their pretax salary, but not more than
statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar a
participant contributes, with a maximum contribution of 3% of a participant's
earnings. The Company's matching contributions to the savings plan were $9
million, $12 million, and $15 million in 1994, 1995, and 1996.

STOCK OPTION PLANS. The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers,
and all employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options.
The Board of Directors determines the option price (not to be less than fair
market value for incentive options) at the date of grant. Options granted prior
to 1995 generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from
the date of grant. Options granted during and after 1995 generally vest over
four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date of grant, while
certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire after ten years.
At June 30, 1996, options for 60.2 million shares were vested and 67.8 million
shares were available for future grants under the plans.

Stock options outstanding were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Price per Share
                                                               Weighted
                                   Number        Range          Average
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                              <C>         <C>                <C>   
Balance, June 30, 1993            114.1       $0.31 - 44.25      $18.06
Granted                            26.2       35.50 - 50.13       37.47
Exercised                         (20.9)       1.51 - 44.25       11.42
Canceled                           (5.5)       5.01 - 44.13       28.67
                                -------
Balance, June 30, 1994            113.9        0.31 - 50.13       23.29
Granted                            21.7       47.75 - 83.13       50.50
Exercised                         (17.6)       0.31 - 47.75       15.81
Canceled                           (4.2)       5.11 - 75.00       35.40
                                -------
Balance, June 30, 1995            113.8        1.54 - 83.13       29.12
Granted                            28.5      80.19 - 117.88       89.97
Exercised                         (19.6)      1.54 -  90.50       21.49
Canceled                           (3.6)      5.17 - 110.88       55.70
                                -------
Balance, June 30, 1996            119.1       2.19 - 117.88       44.14
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

THE MICROSOFT NETWORK

During 1995, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI)
purchased a 20% minority interest in The Microsoft Network. TCI contributed $125
million of TCI common stock and Microsoft contributed the business assets of
this online service. Microsoft owns 80% of the entity, whose operations have not
been material to the financial results of Microsoft.






<PAGE>   10






NONCONTINUING ITEMS

During 1995, Microsoft paid a $46 million breakup fee to Intuit Inc. in
connection with the termination of a planned merger. During 1994, the Company
recorded a net pretax charge of $90 million, reflecting the settlement of patent
litigation with Stac Electronics.


COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and
support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was
$68 million, $86 million, and $92 million in 1994, 1995, and 1996. Future
minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, in millions of dollars,
are: 1997, $89; 1998, $76; 1999, $58; 2000, $28; 2001, $24; and thereafter, $19.

In connection with the Company's communications infrastructure and the operation
of The Microsoft Network, Microsoft has certain communication usage commitments.
Future related minimum commitments, in millions of dollars, are: 1997, $65;
1998, $78; 1999, $106; 2000, $80; and 2001, $11. Also, Microsoft has committed
to certain volumes of outsourced manufacturing of packaged product in the United
States and has committed $293 million for constructing new buildings.

During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
MSNBC joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel and an
interactive online news service. Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a
five-year period for its interest in the cable venture and to pay one-half of
operational funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period.

Microsoft is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
ordinary course of business. Management currently believes that resolving these
matters will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial
position or its results of operations.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1994         1995         1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>          <C>         <C>    
NET REVENUES
  U.S. operations                                      $3,472       $4,495      $ 6,614
  European operations                                   1,401        1,575        2,241
  Other international operations                          375          558          965
  Eliminations                                           (599)        (691)      (1,149)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total net revenues                                 $4,649       $5,937      $ 8,671
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING INCOME
  U.S. operations                                      $1,394       $1,709      $ 2,408
  European operations                                     346          412          680
  Other international operations                           31           91          376
  Eliminations                                            (45)        (174)        (386)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating income                             $1,726       $2,038      $ 3,078
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
  U.S. operations                                      $4,397       $5,862      $ 8,193
  European operations                                   1,366        1,806        2,280
  Other international operations                          423          689        1,042
  Eliminations                                           (823)      (1,147)      (1,422)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total identifiable assets                          $5,363       $7,210      $10,093
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
representative of unaffiliated party transactions. "U.S. operations" include
shipments to customers in the United States, licensing to OEMs, and exports of
finished goods directly to international customers, primarily in Canada, South
America, and Asia. Exports and international OEM transactions are primarily in
U.S. dollars and totaled $787 million, $1,263 million, and $2,148 million in
1994, 1995, and 1996. "Other international operations" primarily include
subsidiaries in Australia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. International revenues,
which include European operations, other international operations, exports, and
OEM distribution, were 54%, 55%, and 60% of total revenues in 1994, 1995, and
1996.






<PAGE>   11






SUBSIDIARIES

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399

GraceMac Corporation (NEVADA)
Microsoft FSC Corp. (U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS)
Microsoft Manufacturing B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft Puerto Rico, Inc. (Manufacturing) (DELAWARE)
Vermeer Technologies, Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft de Argentina S.A.
Microsoft Pty Limited (AUSTRALIA)
Microsoft Gesellschaft m.b.H. (AUSTRIA)
Microsoft N.V. (BELGIUM)
Microsoft Informatica Limitada (BRAZIL)
Microsoft Canada Inc.
Softimage, Inc. (CANADA)
Microsoft Chile S.A.
Microsoft Colombia Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft De Centroamerica S.A. (COSTA RICA)
Microsoft s.r.o. (CZECH REPUBLIC)
Microsoft Danmark ApS (DENMARK)
CorporacionMicrosoft Del Ecuador S.A.
Microsoft Corporation (Representative Office) (EGYPT)
Microsoft Oy (FINLAND)
Microsoft France S.A.R.L.
Softimage France S.A.R.L.
Microsoft G.m.b.H. (GERMANY)
Softimage G.m.b.H. (GERMANY)
Microsoft Hellas S.A. (GREECE)
Microsoft De Guatemala, S.A.
Microsoft Hong Kong Limited
Microsoft Kft (HUNGARY)
Microsoft Corporation (India) Private Limited
PT. Microsoft Indonesia
Microsoft Israel Ltd.
Microsoft S.p.A. (ITALY)
Microsoft Company, Limited (JAPAN)
Microsoft CH (KOREA)
Microsoft (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Microsoft Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Microsoft Maroc S.A.R.L. (MOROCCO)
Microsoft B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft International B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft New Zealand Limited
Microsoft Norge AS (NORWAY)
Microsoft De Panama, S.A.
Microsoft (China) Company Limited (THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA)
Microsoft Peru, S.A.
Microsoft Philippines, Inc.
Microsoft sp. z.o.o. (POLAND)
MSFT-Software Para Microcomputadores, LDA (PORTUGAL)
Microsoft Caribbean, Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft Taiwan Corporation (REPUBLIC OF CHINA)
Microsoft A.O. (RUSSIA)
Microsoft Singapore Pte Ltd
Microsoft Slovakia s.r.o. (SLOVAK REPUBLIC)
Microsoft d.o.o., Ljubljana (SLOVENIA)
Microsoft (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited (SOUTH AFRICA)
Microsoft Iberica S.R.L. (SPAIN)
Microsoft Aktiebolag (SWEDEN)
Microsoft AG (SWITZERLAND)
Microsoft (Thailand) Limited
Microsoft Bilgisayar Yazilim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi (TURKEY)
Microsoft Corporation (Dubai Branch) (UNITED ARAB EMIRATES)
Microsoft Limited (UNITED KINGDOM)
Softimage U.K. Limited
Microsoft Uruguay S.A.
Corporation MS 90 de Venezuela S.A.
The Resident Representative Office of Microsoft Corporation in Hanoi (VIETNAM)
DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C. (WASHINGTON, 50% owned)
The Microsoft Network L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 80% owned)
MSNBC Cable L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSNBC Interactive News L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)




<PAGE>   12









INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Microsoft Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries as of June 30, 1995 and 1996, and the related statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders' equity for each of the three years ended June 30,
1996. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.


We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries as of
June 30, 1995 and 1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years ended June 30, 1996 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States and International Accounting
Standards.



/S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Seattle, Washington
July 22, 1996






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1






                                                                     EXHIBIT 23.

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT

Microsoft Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Numbers
33-06335, 33-18381, 33-25575, 33-33695, and 33-37623 (Microsoft Corporation 1981
Stock Option Plan), 33-44302 and 33-51583 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock
Option Plan), 33-37622 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan), 33-10732 (Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan), 33-36498 (Microsoft
Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors) and 33-45617
(Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors) of
Microsoft Corporation on Forms S-8 and 33-29823, 33-34794, 33-36347, 33-46958,
33-49496, 33-56039, 33-57277, 33-57899, 33-58867, 33-62725, 33-63471, 33-64870,
333-857, 333-1177, 333-2759, 333-5961, and 333-8081 of Microsoft Corporation on
Forms S-3 of our report dated July 22, 1996 appearing in and incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the
year ended June 30, 1996.



/S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Seattle, Washington
September 25, 1996



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary financial information extracted from the
accompanying financial statements and is qualified in its entirety by reference
to such financial statements.
</LEGEND>
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1996
<CASH>                                           6,940
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                      639
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                          0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 7,839
<PP&E>                                           2,346
<DEPRECIATION>                                   1,020
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  10,093
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            2,425
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         2,924
<OTHER-SE>                                       3,984
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    10,093
<SALES>                                          8,671
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 8,671
<CGS>                                            1,188
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    1,188
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 4,405
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  3,379
<INCOME-TAX>                                     1,184
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              2,195
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     2,195
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     3.43
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     3.43
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>FIN. STATEMENTS FOR MSFT 1991 EMP STOCK PURCH PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                        EXHIBIT 99.1







                              MICROSOFT CORPORATION
                        1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN


                          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE
                         THREE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1996
                        AND INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
<PAGE>   2
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Plan Administrator
Microsoft Corporation
1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Redmond, Washington

We have audited the accompanying statements of assets available for benefits of
the Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Plan) as of
June 30, 1996 and 1995, and the related statements of changes in assets
available for benefits for each of the three years ended June 30, 1996. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Plan Administrator. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by the
Plan Administrator, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the assets available for benefits of the Plan as of June 30, 1996 and
1995, and the changes in assets available for benefits for each of the three
years ended June 30, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP


Deloitte & Touche LLP

Seattle, Washington
August 19, 1996
<PAGE>   3
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
STATEMENTS OF ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
JUNE 30, 1996 AND 1995


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  1996          1995

<S>                                             <C>            <C>      
ASSETS:                                         
  Cash                                          $ 545,574      $ 295,579
                                                ---------      ---------    
ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS                   $ 545,574      $ 295,579
                                                =========      =========
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.


                                       2
<PAGE>   4
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1996, 1995, AND 1994

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       1996              1995               1994

<S>                               <C>                <C>                <C>
ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS,      
  beginning of period             $     295,579      $    492,243       $    961,962

ADDITIONS:
  Employee contributions             67,117,845        48,835,431         38,614,990

DEDUCTIONS:
  Cost of shares purchased           66,867,850        49,032,095         39,084,709
                                  -------------      ------------       ------------

CHANGES IN ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR
  BENEFITS                              249,995          (196,664)          (469,719)
                                  -------------      ------------       ------------

ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS,
  end of period                   $     545,574      $    295,579       $    492,243
                                  =============      ============       ============
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.


                                       3
<PAGE>   5
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1996, 1995, AND 1994

NOTE 1:       THE PLAN

The following description of the Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the Plan) provides only general information. Participants should
refer to the Plan agreement for a complete description of the Plan's provisions.

     GENERAL: The Plan Administrator believes the Plan meets the qualification
     standards of Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The Plan is
     not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security
     Act of 1974 (ERISA).

     The Plan covers substantially all employees of Microsoft Corporation (the
     Company) whose customary employment is greater than 20 hours per week and
     more than five months in any calendar year.

     CONTRIBUTIONS: Participants may make contributions to the Plan through
     payroll deductions (not exceeding 10% of their compensation) for the
     purpose of purchasing the Company's common stock. The Plan commenced on
     January 1, 1991, and participants are given the opportunity to purchase
     shares on each June 30 and December 31 until such time as the Plan is
     terminated (see Termination of the Plan). The maximum number of shares that
     will be offered under the Plan is 6,750,000.

     OPTIONS GRANTED AND WITHDRAWALS: Participants are granted the option to
     purchase shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock from the Company at
     85% of the lesser of the fair market value on the first or last day of each
     six-month period ending June 30 or December 31. If, prior to the end of any
     six month period, a participant elects to withdraw from the Plan or has
     terminated, the Plan refunds any amounts withheld in that period plus any
     carryover from the previous period. Such withdrawals have been immaterial.
     The Plan purchased 886,221, 1,049,695, and 1,147,508 shares during the
     years ended June 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. A total of
     5,572,281 shares have been purchased under the Plan since inception with
     1,177,719 shares reserved for future issue.

     ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS: Assets available for benefits represent cash
     in participant accounts that was less than the amount necessary to purchase
     a full share and cash contributed to the Plan greater than the cost of the
     maximum number of shares allowed to be purchased in a six-month period (see
     Limitations). Participants may carry over such amounts to the next period
     or may request a refund from the Plan.

     LIMITATIONS: No employee shall be permitted to subscribe for any shares
     under the Plan if such employee owns shares representing 5% or more of the
     total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the
     Company. Additionally, no participant may purchase more than 2,250 shares
     of stock during a six-month period or purchase shares through the Plan with
     an aggregate fair market value in excess of $25,000 in any one calendar
     year.


                                       4
<PAGE>   6
     TERMINATION OF THE PLAN: The Plan shall terminate at the earliest of the
following:

     -   December 31, 1996

     -   The date of the filing of a statement of intent to dissolve by the
         Company or the effective date of a merger or consolidation (except with
         a related company) where the Company is not to be the surviving
         corporation

     -   The date the Board acts to terminate the Plan

     -   The date when all shares reserved under the Plan have been purchased


     In the event of a dissolution, merger, or acquisition, the Company may
     permit a participating employee to exercise options to the extent that
     employee payroll deductions have accumulated. In the event of termination,
     Plan assets will be distributed to the participants.

     PLAN ADMINISTRATION: All expenses for Plan administration are paid by the
     Company and are not reflected in the accompanying statements.



NOTE 2:       REPLACEMENT PLAN

The current Plan terminates on December 31, 1996. The Company's Board of
Directors has approved submission of a similar plan to a vote of the
shareholders at the 1996 annual shareholders' meeting. If approved, the
replacement plan would commence on January 1, 1997 and would terminate December
31, 2001 or earlier under the same provisions of the current Plan (see Note 1,
Termination of the Plan).


                                       5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
