-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UxJZoWy4IqYfAdQJjdTrrtuIPGZbSbCOfbvC6xURf1X5Wh6byB2ytVfJaOozYMj1
 0MUV2V2YBuRuxFcio1SdZw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001032210-98-001067.txt : 19980928
<SEC-HEADER>0001032210-98-001067.hdr.sgml : 19980928
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001032210-98-001067
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19980630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980925
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		98715364

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY #BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2068828080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY - BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
 
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
 
[_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM               TO         
 
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-14278
 
                               ----------------
 
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 

            WASHINGTON                                     91-1144442
     (STATE OF INCORPORATION)                             (I.R.S. ID)
 
               ONE MICROSOFT WAY, REDMOND, WASHINGTON 98052-6399
 
                                (425) 882-8080
 
                               ----------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 
                                 COMMON STOCK
 
      2 3/4% CONVERTIBLE EXCHANGEABLE PRINCIPAL-PROTECTED PREFERRED STOCK
 
                               ----------------
 
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]
 
  The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of September 11, 1998 was $176,181,694,460.
 
  The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
September 11, 1998 was 2,484,635,670.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Parts I, II and IV. Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement
dated September 25, 1998 to be delivered to shareholders in connection with
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held November 11, 1998 are
incorporated by reference into Part III.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
 
                                     INDEX
 
                                     PART I
<TABLE>
 <C>      <S>                                                                <C>
 Item 1.  Business........................................................     1
 Item 2.  Properties......................................................    12
 Item 3.  Legal Proceedings...............................................    13
 Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.............    13

                                    PART II
 Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
          Matters.........................................................    14
 Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.........................................    14
 Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
          and Financial Condition.........................................    14
 Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk......    14
 Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.....................    14
 Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosures...........................................    14

                                    PART III
 Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..............    15
 Item 11. Executive Compensation..........................................    16
 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management..    16
 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..................    16

                                    PART IV
 Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.    17
 Signatures...............................................................    18
</TABLE>
 
                                       i
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
  Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" or "Microsoft") was founded as a
partnership in 1975 and incorporated in 1981. Microsoft develops,
manufactures, licenses, and supports a wide range of software products,
including scalable operating systems for intelligent devices, personal
computers (PCs) and servers; server applications for client/server
environments; business and consumer productivity applications; software
development tools; and Internet and intranet software and technologies. The
Company's interactive efforts include entertainment and information software
programs, MSN(TM), the Microsoft Network online service; Internet-based
services; and alliances with companies involved with other forms of digital
interactivity. Microsoft also sells personal computer input devices and books,
and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software
products.
 
  Microsoft's business strategy emphasizes the development of a broad line of
software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple
channels of distribution. The Company is divided into three main areas: the
Product Group, the Sales and Support Group, and the Operations Group.
 
  The Platforms and Applications Product Group is comprised of three primary
divisions, each responsible for a particular area of platform software
development and marketing. The Platforms Group develops PC and server
operating systems. The Applications and Tools Group creates server and desktop
productivity applications and software development products. The Consumer
Platforms Group develops system software for intelligent devices.
 
  The Interactive Media Product Group creates and markets productivity
programs, interactive entertainment and information products, desktop finance
products, and hardware peripherals. Interactive Media offerings include
children's titles, games, reference sources, online informational services,
and MSN. The Desktop Finance Division develops personal finance products. The
Hardware Division develops PC peripherals such as the keyboard and mouse.
 
  Microsoft has a research lab dedicated to creating new technology in support
of the Company's vision for the evolution of personal computing.
 
  The Sales and Support Group is responsible for building long-term business
relationships with customers. This group is organized to serve various
customer types, including original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), end-users,
organizations, enterprises, application developers, Internet content providers
(ICPs) and infrastructure owners. Large enterprises are offered tailored
license programs, enterprise-wide support, consulting services, and other
specialized services. The group manages the channels that serve customers by
working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. In addition to the OEM
channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: the South
Pacific and the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and Asia. The
group also supports the Company's products with technical support for end-
users, developers, and organizations.
 
  The Operations Group is responsible for managing business operations and
overall business planning. This includes the process of manufacturing and
delivering finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such as finance,
administration, human resources, and legal; and the publishing efforts of
Microsoft Press.
 
PRODUCTS
 
 PLATFORMS
 
  The Platforms Group is responsible for development of the Microsoft(R)
Windows(R) and Windows NT(R) operating systems including Microsoft Internet
Explorer browsing software. PC operating systems perform a variety of
functions, such as allocating computer memory, scheduling applications
software execution, managing information and communication flow among the
various PC components, and enabling end-users to access files and information
from a variety of sources. The Windows NT operating system for servers is an
enterprise-wide
 
                                       1
<PAGE>
 
platform for building and deploying distributed applications for networked
PCs. It also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet
and intranet applications and content. Component Object Model (COM) underlies
a large majority of the new code developed for Windows and Windows NT
operating systems. COM+, an extension of COM, builds on COM's integrated
services and features, making it easier for developers to create and use
software components in any language, using any tool.
 
 Windows PC Platforms
 
  Windows 98. The successor to Windows 95, Windows 98 is a personal computer
operating system which provides a Web-oriented user interface, better system
performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows 98
supports current graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies, provides the
ability to easily add and remove peripheral devices with support for Universal
Serial Bus (USB), and also enables the convergence of the PC and television.
Windows 98 was released in June 1998.
 
  Windows 95. The successor to MS-DOS(R) and Windows 3.1, Windows 95 was
released in August 1995; periodic service releases, system updates, and new
device drivers have been made available to PC OEMs and end-users via the
Internet on the Company's web site, http://www.microsoft.com. Windows 95 is a
fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit operating system, designed to be
compatible with Intel microprocessor-based PCs, most hardware devices, and
applications for Windows 3.x and MS-DOS.
 
  Windows 3.x. Microsoft Windows 3.1 provides a graphical user interface and
other enhancements for MS-DOS, a single-user, single-tasking operating system.
Windows 3.1 supports 16-bit Windows-based applications, and offers ease of
use, aesthetic appeal, and straightforward integration into corporate
computing environments. Windows for Workgroups 3.11 integrates network and
workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system.
 
 Windows NT Platforms
 
  Windows NT Workstation. A fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit PC operating
system, Windows NT Workstation provides superior security, robustness, and
portability. Windows NT Workstation is a multithreaded operating system for
mission critical computing which provides the same features and applications
programming interfaces (APIs) for Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors.
Microsoft Windows NT Workstation 4.0 features the Windows 95 interface and
combines the ease of use of the Windows 95 operating system with the
reliability and security of Windows NT.
 
  Windows NT Server. Windows NT Server is a powerful operating system
foundation for both server applications and file and print sharing, with
extensive network management features, administration tools, security, and
high availability. Windows NT Server provides a scalable platform for business
critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and e-
mail servers. The operating system integrates Web services such as Microsoft
Internet Information Server, a service used to manage intranet and Internet
functionality and Microsoft FrontPage(R) Web site creation and management
tool. Windows NT Server, Terminal Server Edition, an extension to the Windows
NT Server product line, offers the application support of the Windows
operating system platform with the existing low cost, centrally managed
environment of the mainframe with terminal. Windows NT Server also includes
Microsoft Transaction Server, a component-based transaction processing system
for developing, deploying, and managing scalable enterprise, Internet and
intranet server applications.
 
 APPLICATIONS AND TOOLS
 
  The Applications and Tools Group is responsible for desktop applications,
application oriented server applications, developer tools, and web authoring
tools.
 
 Desktop Applications
 
  The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which
provides the PC with instructions for the performance of productivity tasks
such as manipulating text, numbers, or graphics. The Company's
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
desktop applications software is designed for use by a broad class of end-
users, regardless of business, industry, or market segment. Primary examples
of desktop applications software are word processing, spreadsheet, and
presentation graphics programs. The Company's desktop applications programs
are developed principally for Windows and Macintosh operating systems.
 
  Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office is a suite of software programs featuring
seamless integration of the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft
Office is based upon a document-centric concept, with common commands and
extensive use of cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office is available
in several versions, with certain combinations of products available for the
various operating system platforms. The most recent version for Windows,
Microsoft Office 97, has enhanced Internet features such as integration with
Microsoft Internet Explorer, a Web toolbar, the ability to save as an HTML
format, connectivity to other Office documents or web sites via hyperlinks,
and support for ActiveX(R) controls. Products offered in the various versions
include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet,
Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Outlook(TM)
messaging and collaboration client, Microsoft Access database, Microsoft
Bookshelf(R) CD-ROM reference library, and others. The Microsoft Home
Essentials(R) suite is marketed primarily toward users in the home.
 
  Microsoft Word. The Company's principal word processing program is Microsoft
Word. Versions of Microsoft Word provide graphical word processing features,
plus the ability to handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and
images imported from other software programs.
 
  Microsoft Excel. The Company's spreadsheet program is Microsoft Excel. It is
an integrated spreadsheet with PivotTable(R) dynamic views, database, and
business graphics capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and
embedding of objects that permits users to view and edit graphics or charts
from other programs in the worksheet in which the object is stored. Microsoft
Excel graphics capabilities can be linked to its spreadsheets to allow
simultaneous changes to charts as changes are made to the spreadsheets.
 
  Microsoft PowerPoint. Microsoft PowerPoint is a presentation graphics
program for producing transparencies, slides, overheads, and prints.
 
  Microsoft Access. Microsoft Access is a relational database management
application that provides access to structured business data. Database
products control the maintenance and utilization of structured data organized
into a set of records or files.
 
  Microsoft Outlook. The Company's premier collaboration and messaging client
is Microsoft Outlook. Outlook combines support for Internet standards-based
messaging systems--including Microsoft Exchange Server--with integrated
calendar, contact, and task-management features.
 
  Microsoft Project. Microsoft Project is a critical path project scheduling
and resource allocation program. The product can perform as a budgeting,
monitoring, and cost estimating tool for large business projects and as a
critical path and schedule planning tool.
 
  Other Productivity Products. The Company also offers other productivity
products. Microsoft Publisher is an easy-to-use, entry-level desktop
publishing program. Microsoft FrontPage is a Web site creation and management
tool for Web sites on the Internet or intranets.
 
 Server Applications
 
  Based on Windows NT Server, the Microsoft BackOffice(R) family of server
applications is an integrated suite of software products that include file and
print services, applications, database, messaging, groupware, desktop
management, Internet access, transaction processing, and host connectivity.
BackOffice enables organizations to share information, collaborate, and manage
and deploy business-critical applications. Microsoft
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
BackOffice Small Business Server is designed for smaller companies of 25 users
or less as an integrated solution for sharing files, databases, printers,
electronic mail, fax services, applications, and other resources.
 
  Microsoft Exchange Server. The Company's messaging and collaboration server
is Microsoft Exchange Server, which provides e-mail, group scheduling, task
management, and document routing capabilities. Exchange Server offers a
scalable, reliable, and secure environment for multiple clients and Internet
protocols are part of the core server architecture. It also includes tools to
create rich collaboration applications.
 
  Microsoft SQL Server. Microsoft SQL Server(TM) version is a scalable, high-
performance database management system designed specifically for distributed
client/server computing. Its built-in data replication, management tools,
Internet integration, and open system architecture provide a Windows NT-based
platform for delivering cost-effective information solutions.
 
  Other Servers. Microsoft Proxy Server creates a single, secure gateway to
the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity to host data and
applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server centrally manages this
distributed environment. Microsoft Site Server allows a comprehensive
management of sophisticated Web sites and their content. Microsoft Site Server
Commerce helps businesses engage customers and partners with the creation of
cost-effective commerce sites and applications, targeted online advertising
and marketing, and personalized promotion.
 
 Developer Tools
 
  The Developer Tools Division provides software development tools and
technical information to Internet applications developers and developers for
Windows. These products and services empower independent software developers,
corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters to create a broad
spectrum of applications, primarily for Windows 32-bit operating systems, but
also for the platform-independent Internet and intranets.
 
  Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers
to write programs in a particular computer language and translate programs
into a binary machine-readable set of commands that activate and instruct PC
hardware. The Company develops and markets a number of software development
environments, and language compilers. Microsoft Visual C++(R) is the Company's
development system for Windows-based application development. The Microsoft
Visual Basic(R) development system provides easy access to a wide variety of
data sources by integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the
ability to take advantage of investments in commercial applications through
ActiveX controls. The Visual InterDev(TM) Web Development System includes
integrated, team-based development tools for building data-driven Web
applications based on HTML, Script, and components written in any language.
Microsoft Visual J++(TM) development system for Java contains a high
productivity Integrated Development Environment and a collection of integrated
components to create, test, tune, and deploy Java code on multiple platforms
using ActiveX controls. Microsoft Visual Studio(R) development system is a
suite of developer tools enabling developers to build components and
applications using Visual Basic, Visual C++, Visual FoxPro(R) database
development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual J++.
 
  The Company provides third-party software developers with a wide range of
technical and support information that assists them in developing software
products intended to run on Windows operating systems, taking advantage of key
technologies such as ActiveX controls and Windows 32-bit APIs. Developers can
subscribe to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN(TM)) information service
and receive periodic updates via CD-ROMs, magazines, and several on-line
information services.
 
 CONSUMER PLATFORMS
 
  The Consumer Platforms Group delivers software and platform technologies
that extend the benefits of Windows and Windows-compatible solutions for a
broad range of intelligent business and consumer devices, including handheld
PCs, Palm-sized PCs, wireless-communication devices such as digital
information pagers and cellular smart phones, next-generation entertainment
and multimedia consoles including game players, and purpose-built Internet
access devices such as Internet TVs, digital set-top boxes and Internet "Web
phones."
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
The Consumer Platforms Group also is responsible for systems integration of
products and technologies that public network operators and corporate
customers need for a variety of Internet and intranet-based applications.
 
  Windows CE. Microsoft develops Windows CE, a scaleable Windows platform for
a broad range of communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices.
The Windows CE operating system is built around an API that is consistent with
other 32-bit Windows-based operating systems, which allows developers and
programmers to use the same development tools and communication protocols to
create applications for Windows CE-powered devices. Windows CE allows
information appliances to communicate with each other, share information with
Windows-based PCs, and connect to the Internet. Windows CE is developed for PC
companions, including handheld PCs, palm-size PCs, and auto PCs, vertical
market devices, and home products. Microsoft teams up with hardware companies
that build Windows CE-based devices and who understand the needs of vertical
markets such as automotive, retail, manufacturing, education, healthcare,
telecommunications, or broadcast.
 
  WebTV. In August 1997, Microsoft acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., an online
service that enables consumers to experience the Internet through their
televisions via set-top terminals based on WebTV(TM) technologies. WebTV
operates the WebTV Network Service and develops the WebTV Internet Terminal
and WebTV Plus Receiver, which are available through the company's licensees.
Future versions of the set-top terminals will use the Windows CE operating
system.
 
INTERACTIVE MEDIA
 
  The Interactive Media Group develops and markets interactive entertainment
and information products across a variety of media, including the Internet,
MSN, the Microsoft Network, and CD-ROM.
 
  Learning, Entertainment and Productivity. Reference titles include Microsoft
Encarta(R) and Microsoft Bookshelf. The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia
database blends text in articles with innovative, interactive information
presented through animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures.
Bookshelf is a multimedia reference library that integrates a dictionary,
world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books of
quotations. The Expedia(R) travel series product line offers global
positioning system (GPS)-compatible maps and travel planning in an easy-to-use
format.
 
  Titles for children include My Personal Tutor, a comprehensive three CD-ROM
learning suite, and a series of products based on the popular children's book
and television series, Scholastic's The Magic School Bus(TM).
 
  The Company offers a line of entertainment products. Microsoft Flight
Simulator is a popular aircraft flight simulation product available for
Windows, MS-DOS, and Macintosh operating systems. Other games include Age of
Empires(R), Monster Truck Madness(TM), Microsoft Golf, and other sports and
action titles. Most games are available for the Windows 32-bit environment.
The Microsoft Internet Gaming Zone is a gaming community on the Internet
allowing multiplayer gaming competitions of popular CD-ROM games and classic
card, board, and puzzle games.
 
  Microsoft's productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, an integrated
software program that contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and
database capabilities that allows the easy exchange of information from one
tool to another. Home Essentials, an integrated software program, allows
consumers to complete home PC tasks using Microsoft Word, Microsoft Encarta,
Microsoft Money, Microsoft Works, Microsoft Greetings Workshop, Microsoft
Internet Explorer, and the Microsoft Entertainment Pack-The Puzzle Collection.
 
  Interactive Service Media. The Company is developing an online decision
support infrastructure for end-users in such fields as automobiles, retail,
entertainment, and travel. Microsoft CarPoint(TM) online automotive service
provides current and objective information for new car purchases, including
test drive reviews, dealer invoices, and surround videos. Additionally,
CarPoint features interactive classifieds for used car purchasing and a new
car buying service. Comprised of a national network of dealers, this service
refers customers to nearby dealers. Microsoft Sidewalk(TM) online city guide
is a personalized city guide to local entertainment. The Sidewalk
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
editorial team provides previews, reviews and even customized suggestions
about entertainment events in Seattle, New York, Boston, Minneapolis/St. Paul,
Washington, D.C., San Diego, Denver, Houston, San Francisco, and Sydney,
Australia, with city guides scheduled to launch in additional cities.
Microsoft Expedia(TM) travel service is a free service on the Web and MSN,
which enables users to find low fares, book flights, make hotel reservations,
and rent cars. Expedia also offers a comprehensive source of information for
more than 330 destinations including photos, historical information, and local
details. Microsoft HomeAdvisor online real estate service is a complete guide
to the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes
and loans on the Internet. With HomeAdvisor(R), users can find a home, qualify
and apply for a loan online, calculate financing options, and gain real estate
industry knowledge.
 
  The Microsoft Network. MSN is a Web-based interactive online service. MSN
provides easy and inexpensive access for users to a wide range of graphically
rich online content. The online service provides access to the Internet, a
free Web-based electronic mail account through Hotmail, bulletin boards, and a
myriad of additional services offered by Microsoft and by ICPs.
 
  Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements to
take advantage of creative talent and content from other organizations.
Microsoft owns 50 percent of DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C., a software company
that develops interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the
remaining 50 percent. Microsoft owns 50 percent of MSNBC Cable L.L.C., a 24-
hour cable news and information channel; and 50 percent of MSNBC Interactive
News L.L.C., an interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company
(NBC) owns the remaining 50 percent of these two joint ventures. Microsoft is
an investor in MSFDC L.L.C., a joint venture between Microsoft and First Data
Corp. MSFDC has announced that it is changing its name to TransPoint and
Citibank will make an equity investment in the venture. The venture is
developing an Internet bill delivery and payment service called TransPoint E-
Bills.
 
  Desktop Finance. Desktop Finance develops and markets consumer finance
products and manages relationships with financial institutions to develop
online deliver systems for customers. Microsoft Money is a financial
organization product that allows users to computerize their household
finances. Microsoft Money is available for systems running Microsoft Windows
32-bit operating systems and provides online home-banking services with
numerous different banks in the U.S.
 
  Microsoft Investor is an online investing site that provides a comprehensive
offering of information and services designed to help personal investors make
investment decisions, track their securities and understand the market. A
blend of free and subscription-based services, Investor provides portfolio
tracking and analysis, company and mutual fund research, an investment finder,
daily editorial and market summaries, electronic mail notifications and
alerts, and access to online trading through leading financial services firms.
 
  Hardware Peripherals. The Company's major PC input device is the Microsoft
Mouse, a hand-held pointing device that facilitates use of a PC. The Microsoft
IntelliMouse(R) pointing device is a mouse with a center positioned wheel
which provides transfer zooming, scrolling and data zooming in Microsoft
Windows 32-bit operating systems, Microsoft Internet Explorer, and Microsoft
Office 97. Microsoft also offers a mouse designed for the home and a mouse for
young children. The Company also markets the Microsoft Natural(R) Keyboard, an
ergonomically designed keyboard. Additionally, Microsoft sells various
Microsoft Sidewinder(R) Game Controllers and Force Feedback joysticks with
realistic performance technology for use with PC games. ActiMates(TM)
Interactive Barney is a two-way interactive, talking and moving, wireless
plush character peripheral for young children that operates via programming
from CD-ROM (PC mode) or a VHS (TV mode) and on-board ROM chip (Standalone
mode).
 
MICROSOFT PRESS
 
  Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and
other software developers and about current developments in the industry.
Books published by Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted by
independent authors who submit their manuscripts to the Company for
publication and who receive royalties based on revenue generated by the book.
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
  Microsoft Press contracts with an independent commercial printer for the
manufacturing of its books. Publisher's Resources, Inc. acts as the Company's
main fulfillment house in the United States, maintaining the majority of the
inventory of Microsoft Press(R) books. Books are marketed by independent sales
representatives and by Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally,
Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the
worldwide distribution of its books. Microsoft Press has granted a publisher
in England the right to distribute English language versions of its books in
all countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and
certain Asian countries. In most cases, Microsoft Press provides each
publisher with a book's manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its
translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution of the translated
version.
 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
  The PC software industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological
change, which requires constant attention to software technology trends and
shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace of change has
recently become even greater due to the surge of interest in the Internet,
other forms of online services, PC server-based networking, and new
programming languages, such as Java.
 
  Most of the Company's software products are developed internally. The
Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and
oversees third-party development and localization of certain products.
Internal development enables Microsoft to maintain closer technical control
over the products and gives the Company the freedom to designate which
modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be
implemented. The Company has created a substantial body of proprietary
development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and
enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed to
simplify a product's portability among different operating systems,
microprocessors, or computers. Product documentation is generally created
internally.
 
  The Company believes that a crucial factor in the success of a new product
is getting it to market quickly to respond to new user needs or advances in
PCs, servers, peripherals, and the Internet, without compromising product
quality. The Company strives to become informed at the earliest possible time
about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software
design.
 
  In order to best serve the needs of users around the world, Microsoft
"localizes" many of its products to reflect local languages and conventions.
In French versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are in
French with monetary references in French francs. Various Microsoft products
have been localized into more than 30 languages.
 
  During fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998, the Company spent $1.43 billion,
$1.93 billion, and $2.50 billion, respectively, on product research and
development activities. Those amounts represented 16.5%, 16.9%, and 17.3%,
respectively, of revenue in each of those years, excluding funding of joint
venture activity. The Company is committed to continue high expenditures for
research and product development.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
  Microsoft contracts most of its manufacturing activity with third parties.
Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and
hardware such as mouse pointing devices, keyboards, and joysticks. There are
other custom manufacturers in the event that outsourced manufacturing becomes
unavailable from current sources.
 
  The Company's manufacturing facilities are located in Puerto Rico and
Ireland. The Irish facility and the Puerto Rico facilities replicate disks.
Microsoft outsources its manufacturing of packaged products. Quality control
tests are performed on purchased parts, finished disks and CD-ROMs, and other
products. The chief materials and components used in Microsoft products
include disks or CD-ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company
is often able to acquire component parts and materials on a volume discount
basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and
components.
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
 
  In recent years the Company's sales mix has shifted to OEM and
organizational licenses from packaged products. Also, online distribution of
software may increase in the future.
 
OPERATIONS
 
  Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistic services.
The company has regional operation centers in Ireland and the Greater Seattle
area. The regional centers support all operations activities, including
information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related supporting
functions by geographical regions. The regional center in Dublin, Ireland
supports the European, African and Middle East regions, and the center in the
Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. The company is
establishing a regional operations center in Singapore for the Asia Pacific
region and plans to consolidate its sales operation. The company established
Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI) in Reno, Nevada, a wholly owned
subsidiary, which manages the company's OEM licensing operations.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
  Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing staff with several customer types,
including OEMs, end-users, organizations, enterprises, applications
developers, educators, and Internet content providers (ICPs) and
infrastructure owners. The Company's sales and marketing group seeks to build
long-term relationships with customers of Microsoft products. In addition to
the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing
organizations: the South Pacific and the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and
Africa; and Asia.
 
  The OEM customer unit includes the sales force that works with original
equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software on their PCs.
 
  The end-user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
end-users that make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use at work
or home. Most sales and marketing activities aimed at end-user customers are
performed by this unit, including developing and administering reseller
relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and
promotions; end-user marketing programs; and seminars, events, and sales
training for resellers. The customer unit's sub-segments include direct
marketing resellers and retailers. The key products marketed by the end-user
customer unit are the Company's PC operating systems, desktop applications,
and interactive media products.
 
  The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
groups of users in small and medium organizations. The unit works with channel
partners such as distributors, aggregators, value-added resellers, and
Solution Providers to provide complete business solutions to this customer
segment. The unit's sales and marketing activities include managing technical
training programs for Solution Providers (described below) and channel
resellers; and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training
for channel partners. The Company works with the partners to provide software
and support to a broad range of small and medium size organizations. The
organization customer unit also runs the Microsoft Certified Professional
program, which ensures the quality of Microsoft training for individuals and
corporations.
 
  The enterprise customer unit has responsibility for sales and marketing
activities that target large organizations. The unit works directly with these
organizations, and through large account resellers, to create and support
enterprise-wide, mission critical solutions for business computing needs. The
enterprise customer unit also provides seminars and forums to familiarize
enterprises with technology issues and solutions.
 
  The application developers customer unit targets corporate developers and
independent software vendors (ISVs) who build business applications with a
development platform based on Microsoft Windows and BackOffice architecture.
The unit's sales and marketing activities include providing industry specific
technical training, seminars, and events for ISVs. The application developers
customer unit also focuses on vertical and horizontal industries and their
associated software applications. A key focus of the group is Microsoft
Developer Tools.
 
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
 
  The education customer unit works with key education groups and other
industry partners to provide programs and technology tools that help them
expand and enhance learning opportunities for students. The education customer
unit has three primary areas, including higher education, K-12, and management
of the education channel and resellers.
 
  The Internet customer unit is responsible for introducing the Company's
products and technologies to the public infrastructure owners and ICPs. The
customer unit also focuses on embedded and dedicated systems. Infrastructure
owners include network operators (telephone companies, cable companies,
Internet service providers, etc.) who build, own, and operate the public
networks and ICPs who provide content for the Web.
 
FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS
 
  Distributors and Resellers. The Company markets its products in the finished
goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors and
resellers. Distributors include CHS Electronics, Computer 2000, Inacom, Ingram
Micro, Soft Bank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum,
Corporate Software & Technology, CompUSA, Software House International,
Softmart, ASAP Software Express, and Best Buy. Microsoft has a network of
field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders
from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales
support.
 
  Large Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software
acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized to meet
the needs of large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include
technology specialists and influential end-users in large enterprises.
Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account
resellers. The Microsoft OPEN program is a licensing program that is targeted
for small and medium size organizations. It is available through the reseller
channel and offers discounts based on initial purchase volumes.
 
  Solution Providers. Microsoft's Solution Providers program is a
comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide
network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical
support for business computing solutions. The program supports value-added
resellers (VARs), system integrators, consultants, custom application
developers, solution developers, Internet service and hosting organizations,
independent content providers, and sitebuilders (companies that build Web
sites for other companies), as well as technical support and training
organizations. Under this business partnership strategy, the Company provides
sales and product information, development services, early access to Microsoft
products, and customer support tools including priority telephone support,
education, and business development support. To ensure high-quality technical
services for the Company's products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required
to have Microsoft-certified professionals on staff. Microsoft Direct Access is
a comprehensive and open program that allows independent technology providers
to actively engage with Microsoft through the Microsoft Direct Access program
online, quarterly briefings, training, and action packs.
 
  Consulting Services. The Company's Consulting Services Division assists
customers in deploying and using the Company's computer operating systems,
applications, and communications products. The group works with Solution
Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large
corporate accounts.
 
  International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and/or
support subsidiaries in more than 60 countries. Product is generally delivered
by the Company's owned or outsourced manufacturing operations. They also spend
a significant portion of their time working with partners to help them become
more proficient at providing these technical services. Notes to Financial
Statements--(see Item 8) describe foreign operations and export sales.
 
  The Company's international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are
subject to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as
governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. Microsoft hedges a portion of its foreign exchange risk.
 
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
 
OEM CHANNEL
 
  Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily to OEMs under agreements
that grant the OEMs the right to distribute copies of the Company's products
with their computers. The Company also markets and licenses certain desktop
applications, hardware, and interactive media programs to OEMs under similar
arrangements. In almost all cases, the products are distributed under
Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one or more of
its products with virtually all of the major PC OEMs, including, Acer, Compaq,
Dell, Fujitsu/ICL, Gateway 2000, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC Packard Bell,
Samsung, Siemens, Toshiba, and Vobis.
 
ADVERTISING
 
  The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms.
Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials
are targeted to various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer
media (television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications.
Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are
reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. The Company maintains a broad
advertising campaign emphasizing the Microsoft brand identity.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
  The Company's customers include end-users, organizations, enterprises, ISPs,
application developers, and OEMs. Most end-users of Microsoft products are
individuals in businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and
at home. The end-users and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily
through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with
their hardware. Notes to Financial Statements (see Item 8) describe customers
that represent more than 10% of the Company's revenue. The Company's practice
is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from its
customers and, consequently, backlog is not significant.
 
PRODUCT SUPPORT
 
  The Company provides product support coverage options to meet the needs of
users of Microsoft products. Support personnel are located in various sites in
the U.S. and around the world. Certain support is also supplied by qualified
third-party support organizations. The Company hires individuals with product
expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product
education and training, and consistent processes to deliver quality support
for Microsoft products. Coverage options range from standard no-charge toll
telephone support to fee-based offerings providing unlimited 800 number
telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products 24 hours
per day, 7 days per week.
 
  Users have access to troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft's
KnowledgeBase, a library of thousands of technical articles that is updated
regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Microsoft
provides access to KnowledgeBase via MSN, America Online, Prodigy, and the
Internet. Additionally, several support offerings include Microsoft TechNet
and Microsoft Developer Network information subscription services.
 
  As a supplement or alternative to direct support, the Company enhances the
third-party support channel by providing Microsoft Solution Providers with
education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solution Providers include
Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and
certification on Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which
provide a wide spectrum of multinational support, multivendor support, and
integration services.
 
COMPETITION
 
  The PC software business is intensely competitive and subject to extremely
rapid technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition in all
areas of its business activity, including competition from many
 
                                      10
<PAGE>
 
companies much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace of technological change
continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups
and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also
faces constant competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and
distribute Microsoft's copyrighted software products.
 
  Operating systems. Microsoft's operating system products face substantial
competition from a wide variety of companies. Major competitors such as IBM,
Apple Computer, Compaq (Digital Equipment Corporation), Hewlett-Packard, Sun
Microsystems and others are vertically integrated in both software development
and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they
preinstall on computers of their own manufacture. Many of these operating
system software products are also licensed to third-party OEMs for
preinstallation on their machines. Microsoft's operating system products
compete with UNIX-based operating systems from a wide range of companies
including IBM, AT&T, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz
Operation, and others. Variants of UNIX run on a wide variety of computer
platforms and have gained increasing acceptance as desktop operating systems.
Over the past year the Linux operating system has gained increasing
acceptance, and leading software developers such as Oracle and Corel have
announced that they will develop applications that run on Linux. As PC
technology increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications,
Microsoft's operating system products will face increased competition from
network server operating systems such as Novell's NetWare, Banyan's Vines, the
many variants of UNIX, IBM's OS/2, "middleware" products such as IBM's Lotus
Notes, and intranet servers from Netscape, IBM, Sun Microsystems, and others.
 
  Business systems. The Company is a fairly recent entrant into the business
of providing enterprise-wide computing solutions. Several competitors enjoy a
larger share of sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer
operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including
IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are
typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantive support
services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for
PC-based distributed client/server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer
Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who
offer connectivity servers. As mentioned above, there are numerous companies
and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software which
compete against the Company's business systems. Additionally, IBM has a large
installed base of Lotus Notes and cc:Mail, both of which compete with the
Company's collaboration and e-mail products.
 
  Desktop applications. The Company's competitors include many software
application vendors, such as IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.),
Corel, and local application developers in Europe and the Far East. IBM and
Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor
products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM
and Apple preinstall certain of their software products on various models of
their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft desktop application software.
 
  Developer tools. The Company's developer products compete against offerings
from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and
other companies.
 
  News services. The Company's MSNBC joint ventures face formidable
competition from other 24-hour cable and Internet news organizations such as
CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with
traditional news media such as newspapers and broadcast TV and Internet news
services.
 
  Consumer platforms. A wide variety of companies develop operating systems
for information appliances, including Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software,
and others. The Company's nascent WebTV offerings and other multimedia
consumer products face competitors such as Sun Microsystems, Oracle,
NetChannel, and others. An enormous range of companies, including media
conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware
manufacturers, and software developers, are competing to make interactive
services widely available to the home.
 
  Internet platforms and services. The advent of the Internet as a computing,
communication, and collaboration platform as well as a low cost and efficient
distribution vehicle increases competition and creates uncertainty as to
future technology directions. The Company faces intense competition in the
development and
 
                                      11
<PAGE>
 
marketing of Internet (and intranet) software from a wide variety of companies
and organizations including IBM, Netscape, Novell, Oracle, Real Networks, Sun
Microsystems', and many others. In addition, the very low barriers to entry on
the Internet have allowed numerous Web-based service companies to build
significant businesses in areas such as electronic mail, electronic commerce,
Web search engines, directories, and information of numerous types.
Competitors include Netscape, Lycos, Yahoo, Excite, Infoseek, CitySearch, and
many others.
 
  Online services. Microsoft's online services network, MSN, faces formidable
competition from America Online and other traditional online services as well
as a vast array of sites on the World Wide Web that offer content of all types
and email, chat, search and shopping services, among other things.
 
  Interactive media. The Company's Interactive Media division faces many
smaller but focused and branded competitors, particularly in the areas of
entertainment and education. Consolidation in this area of software
development has made certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include
Intuit, Electronic Arts, The Learning Company (including Softkey, MECC,
Broderbund, and Compton's), Voyager, Cendant (including Sierra On Line,
Knowledge Adventures, and Davidson Associates), and Dorling Kindersley. Still
other competitors own branded content, such as Disney and Lucas Arts.
 
  Additionally, PC-based games are increasingly competing head-to-head against
games created for proprietary systems such as Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and
Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers,
since computers are typically sold with a keyboard and mouse, and other
manufacturers of these devices.
 
  A number of Microsoft's most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun
Microsystems, Oracle, and Netscape, are collaborating with one another on
various initiatives directed at competition with Microsoft. These initiatives
relate in part to efforts to move software from individual PCs to centrally-
managed servers. While the likely technological and business success of such
"thin client" strategies is currently unknown, widespread adoption of such
computing systems would present significant challenges to the Company's
historical business model.
 
  The Company's competitive position may be adversely affected by one or more
of these factors in the future, particularly in view of the fast pace of
technological change in the software industry.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of June 30, 1998, the Company employed 27,055 people on a full-time
basis, 18,425 in the U.S. and 8,630 internationally. Of the total, 10,019 were
in product research and development, 13,547 in sales, marketing, and support,
1,142 in manufacturing and distribution, and 2,347 in finance and
administration. Microsoft's success is highly dependent on its ability to
attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees is intense
in the software industry. To date, the Company believes it has been successful
in its efforts to recruit qualified employees, but there is no assurance that
it will continue to be as successful in the future. None of the Company's
employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company
believes relations with its employees are excellent.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's corporate offices consist of approximately 5.2 million square
feet of office building space located in King County, Washington. There are
two sites that total approximately 300 acres of land. The Company recently
completed the construction of three office buildings comprising approximately
565,000 square feet of space and is constructing a set of office buildings
with approximately 418,000 square feet of space. This site will be occupied in
the winter of 1999. The Company owns all of its corporate campus.
 
  The Company entered into a build to suit lease agreement in the San
Francisco, CA, Bay Area. This campus when complete will be approximately
515,000 square feet. It is scheduled to open in the spring of 1999.
 
 
                                      12
<PAGE>
 
  The Company leases a 45,000 square foot disk duplication facility in
Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico facility, which began operation in April
1990, is leased under a 10-year lease, with an option to renew for an
additional 10 years. The Company's European manufacturing operation consists
of a 161,000 square foot facility situated on 12 acres in Dublin, Ireland. The
Ireland site also includes office buildings with 157,000 square feet for
international localization. The Ireland facilities are fully owned by the
Company. In Les Ulis, France, the Company owns a 199,000 square foot office
building on four acres of land. In the United Kingdom, the Company owns 3
building that total 230,000 square feet. The Company is going to execute a
sale lease back on this property during the next fiscal year.
 
  In addition, the Company leases office space in numerous locations in the
United States and many other countries.
 
  The Company's facilities are fully utilized for current operations and
suitable additional space is available to accommodate expansion needs.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The information set forth in Notes to Financial Statements--Contingencies on
page 45-46 of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1998.
 
                                      13
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
  The information set forth on page 48 of the 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.1.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  The information set forth on page 1 of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.2.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
  The information set forth on pages 27-33 of the 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.3.
 
ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
  The information set forth on pages 27-33 of the 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.3.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  The following financial statements and supplement data for the Company and
independent auditors' report set forth on pages 26 and 34-49 of the 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed
herewith as Exhibit 13.4.
 
  . Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1998
 
  . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1998
 
  . Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1997 and 1998
 
  . Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1998
 
  . Notes to Financial Statements
 
  . Independent Auditors' Report
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
 
  None.
 
                                       14
<PAGE>
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information with respect to Directors may be found under the caption
"Election of Directors and Management Information" on pages 1 and 2 of the
Company's Proxy Statement dated September 25, 1998, for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held November 11, 1998 (the "Proxy Statement"). Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
  The executive officers of Microsoft as of September 11, 1998 were as
follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   NAME                          AGE  POSITION WITH THE COMPANY
   ----                          ---  -------------------------
   <C>                           <C>  <S>
   William H. Gates............   42   Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive
                                       Officer
   Steven A. Ballmer...........   42   President
   Robert J. Herbold...........   56   Executive Vice President; Chief
                                       Operating Officer
   Frank M. (Pete) Higgins.....   40   Group Vice President, Interactive Media
   Paul A. Maritz..............   43   Group Vice President, Platforms and
                                       Applications
   Nathan P. Myhrvold..........   39   Group Vice President, Chief Technology
                                       Officer
   Jeffrey S. Raikes...........   40   Group Vice President, Sales and Support
   James E. Allchin............   46   Senior Vice President, Personal and
                                       Business Systems
   Orlando Ayala Lozano........   42   Senior Vice President, South Pacific
                                       and Americas Region
   Joachim Kempin..............   56   Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet
                                       Customer Unit, Embedded Systems
   Michel Lacombe..............   47   Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle
                                       East, and Africa Region; President,
                                       Microsoft Europe
   Robert L. Muglia............   38   Senior Vice President, Applications and
                                       Tools Division
   Craig Mundie................   49   Senior Vice President, Consumer
                                       Platforms Division
   William H. Neukom...........   56   Senior Vice President, Law and
                                       Corporate Affairs; Secretary
   Bernard P. Vergnes..........   53   Senior Vice President, Microsoft;
                                       Chairman, Microsoft Europe
   Gregory B. Maffei...........   38   Vice President, Finance; Chief
                                       Financial Officer
</TABLE>
 
  Mr. Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 and has been its Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was
incorporated in 1981.
 
  Mr. Ballmer was named President in July 1998 and had been Executive Vice
President, Sales and Support since February 1992. He had been Senior Vice
President, Systems Software since 1989. From 1984 until 1989, Mr. Ballmer
served as Vice President, Systems Software. He joined Microsoft in 1980.
 
  Mr. Herbold joined Microsoft as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer in November 1994. Mr. Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble
Company since 1968, with experience in information services, advertising and
market research. Most recently, he was P&G's Senior Vice President,
Information Services and Advertising.
 
  Mr. Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group in
October 1996. He was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content in
May 1995 and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division in March
1993. He had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since 1992.
Mr. Higgins joined Microsoft in 1983.
 
  Mr. Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications in
October 1996 and had been Group Vice President, Platforms since May 1995. He
had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy in November
1994 and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February 1992.
He had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since 1989. Mr. Maritz
joined Microsoft in 1986.
 
  Mr. Myhrvold was named Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in
October 1996. He was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content in
May 1995 and had been Senior Vice President,
 
                                      15
<PAGE>
 
Advanced Technology since July 1993. He had been Vice President, Advanced
Technology and Business Development since 1989. Mr. Myhrvold joined Microsoft
in 1986.
 
  Mr. Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support in July 1998.
He had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July 1996. He was
named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America in January 1992 and had
been Vice President, Office Systems since 1990. Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in
1981.
 
  Mr. Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems
in February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems
Division in November 1994 and had been Vice President, Business Systems
Division, since July 1991. Mr. Allchin joined Microsoft in 1991.
 
  Mr. Ayala was named Senior Vice President of South Pacific and Americas
Region in February 1998. He had been Vice President of the developing markets
of Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast
Asia and the South Pacific. He joined Microsoft in May 1991 as Senior Director
of the Latin America Region.
 
  Mr. Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit,
Embedded Systems in February 1998. He had been Senior Vice President, OEM
Sales since August 1993. He had been Vice President, OEM Sales since 1987. Mr.
Kempin joined Microsoft in 1983.
 
  Mr. Lacombe is President, Microsoft Europe. He was named Senior Vice
President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region in February 1998. He had
been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since
July 1997. He had been Vice President, Europe since September 1995 and Vice
President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April 1994. Mr. Lacombe had
been Regional Director of Southern Europe from May 1991. Mr. Lacombe joined
Microsoft in 1983.
 
  Mr. Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division
in February 1998. He had been Vice President of the Server Applications
Division since 1997 and was Vice President of Developer Tools since 1995. He
joined Microsoft in January 1988.
 
  Mr. Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division in
February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems in May
1995 and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July
1993. He joined Microsoft as General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology in
December 1992.
 
  Mr. Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs in
February 1994. He joined Microsoft in 1985 as Vice President, Law and
Corporate Affairs.
 
  Mr. Vergnes is a Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe. He
was named President, Microsoft Europe in April 1992. He had been Vice
President, Europe since 1989. Mr. Vergnes joined Microsoft in 1983.
 
  Mr. Maffei was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in
July 1997. He was named Vice President, Corporate Development in July 1996 and
Treasurer in April 1994. He joined Microsoft in April 1993 as Director,
Business Development & Investments.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions
"Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" on pages 4 through 6
and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" on page 2 is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding
Beneficial Ownership of Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" on
page 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The information set forth in Notes to Financial Statements -- Acquisition on
page 44 of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.
 
                                      16
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a) Financial Statements and Schedules
 
    The financial statements as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form
  10-K are incorporated herein by reference.
 
    Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not
  required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of fiscal 1998.
 
  (c) Exhibit Listing
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     EXHIBIT
     NUMBER  DESCRIPTION
     ------- -----------
     <C>     <S>
       3.1   Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)
       3.2   Bylaws (1)
      10.1   Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan (2)
      10.2   Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (3)
      10.3   Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors
             (1)
      10.4   Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and
             Advisors (1)
      10.5   Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2)
      10.6   Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (1)
      10.7   Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft Corporation
             and First Interstate Bank of Washington (4)
      10.8   Form of Indemnification Agreement (4)
      11.    Computation of Earnings Per Share (5)
      13.1   Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to Page
             48 of 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders ("1998 Annual Report")
      13.2   Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to Page 1 of
             1998 Annual Report
      13.3   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
             Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 27-33 of
             1998 Annual Report
      13.4   Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 26 and 34-
             49 of 1998 Annual Report
      21.    Subsidiaries of Registrant Incorporated by Reference to Page 50 of
             1998 Annual Report
      23.    Independent Auditors' Consent
      27.    Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
    Year Ended June 30, 1994.
(2) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
    Year Ended June 30, 1997.
(3) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8.
(4) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
    Year Ended June 30, 1993.
(5) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.
 
 
                                      17
<PAGE>
 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, IN THE CITY OF
REDMOND, STATE OF WASHINGTON, ON SEPTEMBER 23, 1998.
 
                                          MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
                                          By      /s/ Gregory B. Maffei
                                          _____________________________________
                                                    Gregory B. Maffei
                                             Vice President, Finance; Chief
                                                    Financial Officer
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED ON SEPTEMBER 23, 1998.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              SIGNATURE                                TITLE
              ---------                                -----
 
<S>                                    <C>
/s/ William H. Gates                   Chairman of the Board of Directors and
______________________________________ Chief Executive Officer
   William H. Gates
 
/s/ Paul G. Allen                      Director
______________________________________
   Paul G. Allen
 
/s/ Jill E. Barad                      Director
______________________________________
   Jill E. Barad
 
/s/ Richard A. Hackborn                Director
______________________________________
   Richard A. Hackborn
 
/s/ David F. Marquardt                 Director
______________________________________
   David F. Marquardt
 
/s/ Robert D. O'Brien                  Director
______________________________________
   Robert D. O'Brien
 
/s/ Wm. G. Reed, Jr.                   Director
______________________________________
   Wm. G. Reed, Jr.
 
/s/ Jon A. Shirley                     Director
______________________________________
   Jon A. Shirley
 
/s/ Gregory B. Maffei                  Vice President, Finance; Chief
______________________________________ Financial Officer (Principal Financial
   Gregory B. Maffei                   and Accounting Officer)
</TABLE>
 
                                      18
<PAGE>
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 NUMBER DESCRIPTION
 ------ -----------
 <C>    <S>
   3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)
   3.2  Bylaws (1)
  10.1  Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan (2)
  10.2  Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (3)
  10.3  Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (1)
  10.4  Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors
        (1)
  10.5  Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2)
  10.6  Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (1)
  10.7  Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft Corporation and
        First Interstate Bank of Washington (4)
  10.8  Form of Indemnification Agreement (4)
  11.   Computation of Earnings Per Share (5)
  13.1  Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to Page 48
        of 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders ("1998 Annual Report")
  13.2  Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to Page 1 of 1998
        Annual Report
  13.3  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
        Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 27-33 of 1998
        Annual Report
  13.4  Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 26 and 34-49 of
        1998 Annual Report
  21.   Subsidiaries of Registrant Incorporated by Reference to Page 50 of 1998
        Annual Report
  23.   Independent Auditors' Consent
  27.   Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
    Ended June 30, 1994.
(2) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
    Ended June 30, 1997.
(3) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8.
(4) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
    Ended June 30, 1993.
(5) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>QUARTERLY AND MARKET INFORMATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.1

QUARTERLY INFORMATION
(In millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Quarter Ended
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       Sept. 30      Dec. 31       Mar. 31       June 30          Year
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>        <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
1996
Revenue                                  $2,016       $2,195        $2,205       $ 2,255       $ 8,671
Operating income                            704          809           778           768         3,059
Net income                                  499          575           562           559         2,195
Basic earnings per share                   0.21         0.24          0.24          0.23          0.93
Diluted earnings per share                 0.19         0.23          0.22          0.22          0.86
Common stock price per share:
  High                                    27.32        25.85         26.77         31.47         31.47
  Low                                     21.25        20.10         19.97         24.91         19.97
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1997
Revenue                                  $2,295       $2,680        $3,208       $ 3,175       $11,358
Operating income                            853        1,035         1,484         1,499         4,871
Net income                                  614          741         1,042         1,057         3,454
Basic earnings per share                   0.26         0.31          0.43          0.44          1.44
Diluted earnings per share                 0.24         0.28          0.40          0.40          1.32
Common stock price per share:
  High                                    34.66        43.07         51.75         67.47         67.47
  Low                                     26.88        32.72         40.38         44.88         26.88
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1998
Revenue                                  $3,130       $3,585        $3,774       $ 3,995       $14,484
Operating income                          1,060        1,613         1,867         1,874         6,414
Net income                                  663        1,133         1,337         1,357         4,490
Basic earnings per share                   0.27         0.47          0.55          0.55          1.83
Diluted earnings per share                 0.25         0.42          0.50          0.50          1.67
Common stock price per share:
  High                                    75.38        73.31         90.94        108.56        108.56
  Low                                     61.63        59.00         62.19         81.88         59.00
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
 
The Company's common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
MSFT.  On July 31, 1998, there were 70,491 registered holders of record of the
Company's common stock.  The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common
stock.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.2

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                     1994         1995          1996          1997          1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenue                                  $4,649       $5,937       $ 8,671       $11,358       $14,484
Net income                                1,146        1,453         2,195         3,454         4,490
Diluted earnings per share (1)             0.47         0.58          0.86          1.32          1.67
Cash and short-term investments           3,614        4,750         6,940         8,966        13,927
Total assets                              5,363        7,210        10,093        14,387        22,357
Stockholders' equity                      4,450        5,333         6,908        10,777        16,627
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
                                                                                
(1)  Diluted earnings per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one
     stock split in February 1998.

                                       1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.3
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.3

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR 1996, 1997, AND 1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports a wide range of
software products, including scalable operating systems for intelligent devices,
personal computers (PCs), and servers; server applications for client/server
environments; business and consumer productivity applications; software
development tools; and Internet and intranet software and technologies.  The
Company's interactive efforts include entertainment and information software
programs; MSN, the Microsoft Network online service; Internet-based services;
and alliances with companies involved with various forms of digital
interactivity.  Microsoft also sells personal computer input devices and books,
and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products.

                                                                         REVENUE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Company's revenue growth rate continued to slow, from 46% in the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1996 and 31% in fiscal 1997 to 28% in fiscal 1998.  Revenue
growth was particularly strong in 1996 due to the retail introduction of the
Microsoft Windows 95 operating system.  The 1997 and 1998 growth rates, although
slower than that of 1996, reflected the continued adoption of Windows 32-bit
operating systems and Microsoft Office 97, particularly as Microsoft software is
deployed across entire corporate, academic, and governmental organizations.
Software license volume increases have been the principal factor in Microsoft's
revenue growth.  The average selling price per license has decreased, primarily
because of general shifts in the sales mix from retail packaged products to
licensing programs, from new products to product upgrades, and from stand-alone
desktop applications to integrated product suites.  Average revenue per license
from original equipment manufacturer (OEM) licenses and organization license
programs is lower than average revenue per license from retail versions.
Likewise, product upgrades have lower prices 

                                       1

<PAGE>
 
than new products. Also, prices of integrated suites, such as Microsoft Office,
are less than the sum of the prices for the individual programs included in
these suites when such programs are licensed separately. During each of the
three years an increased percentage of products and programs included elements
which were billed but unearned and recognized ratably, such as Windows operating
systems, Office 97, maintenance, and other subscription models. See accompanying
notes.

PRODUCT GROUPS. Platform product revenue was $4.11 billion, $5.97 billion, and
$7.64 billion in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Platform revenue is primarily licenses
of PC operating systems; business systems with client/server, Internet, and
intranet architectures; and software development tools.

The Company's principal desktop platform products are its 32-bit operating
systems: Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows NT Workstation.  Released in August
1995, Windows 95 was a successor to the MS-DOS(R) and Microsoft Windows 3.x
operating systems.  Windows NT Workstation version 4.0 was released in fiscal
1997.  Windows 98 became available at the end of fiscal 1998.  Although the
growth rate of new PC shipments slowed, desktop operating systems contributed to
revenue growth as shipments of new PCs preinstalled with such systems increased
during the three-year period.  Additionally, increased penetration of higher
value 32-bit operating systems, particularly Windows NT Workstation, led to
growth in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  In 1996, retail license sales of Windows 95
were a major factor in the Platform revenue increase, reflecting the typical
sales pattern for major operating system upgrades.  Also in 1996, a portion of
Windows operating system revenue became subject to ratable recognition.

Business systems products offer an enterprise-wide distributed client/server,
Internet, and intranet environment based on the Microsoft Windows NT Server
operating system, Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and other
server applications in the Microsoft BackOffice (R) family of products. Revenue
from these products increased strongly due to greater corporate demand,
particularly for intranet solutions, although the growth rate slowed in 1998.

Although revenue was not significant, sales of WebTV terminals and service and
preinstallations of Windows CE by OEMs on intelligent devices were strong in
1998.

Independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions developers
license tools such as the Microsoft Visual Basic(R) development system to
develop software for Windows operating systems and the Internet.  Revenue from
developer products increased steadily in 1996 and 1997 and was flat in 1998.

Applications and Content revenue was $4.56 billion, $5.39 billion, and $6.84
billion in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Applications and Content revenue includes
primarily licenses of desktop and consumer productivity applications,
interactive media programs, and PC input devices.  Microsoft Office for Windows
95 was released in fiscal 1996 and Microsoft Office 97 was released in fiscal
1997.  Applications and Content revenue grew 27% in 1996, 18% in 1997, and 27%
in 1998.  The lower growth rate in 1997 was due primarily to the application of
the ratable revenue recognition model for Office 97.

Absolute increases in desktop applications revenue during the three-year period
were led by the various Microsoft Office integrated suites, including Standard,
Professional, and Small Business Editions.  The primary programs in Microsoft
Office are the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, and
Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics program.  Various versions of
Office, which are available for the 32-bit version of Windows, the 16-bit
version of Windows, and Macintosh operating systems, also include Microsoft
Access database management program, Microsoft Outlook(TM) messaging and
collaboration client, or other programs.  Revenue from stand-alone versions of
Microsoft Excel, Word, 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
and PowerPoint continued to decrease as the sales mix shifted to integrated
product suites. Microsoft Project scheduling and project management program
revenue increased during the three-year period.

Microsoft offers a broad range of interactive media products, which also showed
moderate growth.  Products include CD-ROM multimedia reference titles and
programs for home and small office productivity, children's creativity, and
entertainment.  In addition to the Microsoft Network, online Internet services
include travel information and reservations, local event information, and car
buying information.

The Company also markets input devices.  Mouse and gaming device sales increased
while keyboard revenue was steady during the three-year period.

SALES CHANNELS. The Company distributes its products primarily through OEM
licenses, organization licenses, and retail packaged products.  OEM channel
revenue represents license fees from original equipment manufacturers.
Microsoft has three major sales and marketing geographies: the United States and
Canada, Europe, and elsewhere in the world (Other International).  Sales of
organization licenses and packaged products in these channels are primarily to
distributors and resellers.  The trend has continued toward a higher percentage
of organization licensing versus packaged products.

OEM channel revenue was $2.50 billion in 1996, $3.48 billion in 1997, and $4.72
billion in 1998.  The primary source of OEM revenue is the licensing of desktop
operating systems, and OEM revenue is highly dependent on PC shipment volume.

U.S. and Canadian channel revenue was $2.68 billion, $3.41 billion, and $4.36
billion in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Revenue in Europe was $2.02 billion, $2.54
billion, and $3.15 billion in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Growth rates have been
lower in Europe than in other geographic areas due to higher existing market
shares and a more dramatic shift to licensing programs.  Other International
channel revenue was $1.47 billion in 1996, $1.93 billion in 1997, and $2.26
billion in 1998.  Growth rates were higher in the Other International channel in
1996 and 1997 due to customers accepting newly localized products, particularly
in Japan, and penetration in emerging markets.  However, revenue was relatively
flat in Japan and Southeast Asia in 1998 due to economic issues and weak
currencies.

The Company's operating results are affected by foreign exchange rates.
Approximately 34%, 32%, and 34% of the Company's revenue was collected in
foreign currencies during 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Since a portion of local
currency revenue is hedged and much of the Company's international manufacturing
costs and operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the impact
of exchange rates is partially mitigated.

                                                              OPERATING EXPENSES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COST OF REVENUE. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue was 13.7% in 1996,
9.6% in 1997, and 8.3% in 1998.  The decrease was due to the shifts in mix to
CD-ROMs (which carry lower cost of goods than disks), licenses to OEMs and
organizations, and higher-margin Windows NT Server, other servers, and client
access licenses in the BackOffice product family.  In 1998, the decrease was
offset somewhat by costs of WebTV.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Microsoft continued to invest heavily in the future by
funding research and development (R&D).  Expense increases of 67% in 1996, 34%
in 1997, and 30% in 1998 resulted primarily from development staff headcount
growth and higher levels of third-party development costs in many areas,
particularly Windows-based platforms, including desktop operating systems,
server systems, and 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
consumer appliances, along with Internet and intranet technologies. R&D costs
also increased for desktop and server applications, development tools, and
interactive media initiatives such as MSN and other online services.

In August 1997, the Company acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., an online service
that enables consumers to experience the Internet through their televisions via
set-top terminals.  Microsoft paid $425 million in stock and cash.  The
accompanying income statement reflects a one-time write-off of in-process
technologies under development by WebTV Networks of $296 million.

SALES AND MARKETING. The increase in the absolute dollar amount of sales and
marketing expenses in the three-year period was due primarily to expanded
product-specific marketing programs, such as Windows 95 in 1996, Office 97 in
1997, and Windows 98 in 1998.  Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of
revenue decreased due to moderate headcount growth.  Microsoft brand advertising
and product support expenses declined in 1997, but rose slightly in 1998.

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE. Increases in general and administrative expenses
were attributable to higher legal costs and growth in the number of people and
computer systems necessary to support overall increases in the scope of the
Company's operations.

OTHER EXPENSES. Other expenses increased due to recognition of Microsoft's share
of joint venture activities, including DreamWorks Interactive and the MSNBC
entities.

                                                INTEREST INCOME AND INCOME TAXES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income increased primarily as a result of a larger investment portfolio
generated by cash from operations.  The effective income tax rate was 35.0% in
1996 and 1997.  The effective income tax rate increased to 36.9% in 1998 due to
the nondeductible write-off of WebTV in-process technologies.

                                                                      NET INCOME
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income as a percent of revenue increased in 1996, 1997, and 1998 due to the
lower relative cost of revenue, sales and marketing expenses, and general and
administrative expenses, partially offset by investments in research and
development, joint ventures, and WebTV.


FINANCIAL CONDITION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft's cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $13.93 billion at
June 30, 1998.  The portfolio is diversified among security types, industries,
and individual issuers.  Microsoft's investments are generally liquid and
investment grade.  The portfolio is invested predominantly in U.S. dollar
denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions in
anticipation of continued international expansion.  The portfolio is primarily
invested in short-term securities to minimize interest rate risk and facilitate
rapid deployment in the event of immediate cash needs.

Microsoft also invests in equities, including financial investments and
strategic technology companies in many areas.  During 1997, Microsoft invested
$1.0 billion in Comcast Corporation, a cable television and diversified
telecommunications company.  Comcast Special Class A common stock and
convertible preferred stock are included in equity investments at fair market
value on the balance sheet.

During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
MSNBC joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel and an
interactive online news service.  Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a
five-year period for its interest in the cable venture, to pay one-half of

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
operational funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period, and to
guarantee a portion of MSNBC debt.

Microsoft has no material long-term debt and has $100 million of standby
multicurrency lines of credit to support foreign currency hedging and cash
management.  Stockholders' equity at June 30, 1998 was $16.63 billion.

Microsoft will continue to invest in sales, marketing, and product support
infrastructure.  Additionally, research and development activities will include
investments in existing and advanced areas of technology, including using cash
to acquire technology and to fund ventures and other strategic opportunities.
Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and
computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and
administrative staff.  Commitments for constructing new buildings were $420
million on June 30, 1998.

Cash will also be used to repurchase common stock to provide shares for employee
stock option and purchase plans.  The buyback program has not kept pace with
employee stock option grants or exercises.  Beginning in fiscal 1990, Microsoft
has repurchased 347 million common shares while 807 million shares were issued
under the Company's employee stock option and purchase plans.  The market value
of all outstanding stock options was $48 billion as of June 30, 1998.  Microsoft
enhances its repurchase program by selling put warrants.  During December 1996,
Microsoft issued 12.5 million shares of 2.75% convertible preferred stock.  Net
proceeds of $980 million were used to repurchase common shares.

Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds
generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating requirements for
the next 12 months.  Microsoft's cash and short-term investments are available
for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, other potential large-scale
cash needs that may arise, and to fund an increased stock buyback program over
historical levels to reduce the dilutive impact of the Company's employee stock
option and purchase programs.

Microsoft has not paid cash dividends on its common stock.  The preferred stock
pays $2.196 per annum per share.


ISSUES AND UNCERTAINTIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft does not provide forecasts of future financial performance.  While
Microsoft management is optimistic about the Company's long-term prospects, the
following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in
evaluating its growth outlook.

RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND COMPETITION.  Rapid change, uncertainty due to
new and emerging technologies, and fierce competition characterize the PC
software industry.  The pace of change has recently accelerated due to the
Internet and new programming languages, such as Java.

FUTURE INITIATIVES.  The Company is expanding its efforts to provide and support
mission-critical systems to large enterprises.  Scalability of BackOffice server
and application products, total cost of ownership of Windows- and Office-based
systems, information storage unification, user interface simplification, and
Internet and intranet integration are also major focus areas.  Additionally,
Microsoft is committed to providing technologies, operating systems, and
interactive content for the future convergence of PCs, televisions, and the
Internet.  Future revenue from these initiatives may not duplicate historical
revenue growth rates.

PC GROWTH RATES.  The underlying PC unit growth rate and percentage of new PCs
acquired as replacement units directly impact the Company's software revenue
growth.  The PC shipment growth rate may continue to decrease and the
replacement rate may continue to increase, reducing future software revenue
opportunity.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
PRODUCT SHIP SCHEDULES.  Delays in new-product releases dampen revenue growth
rates and can cause operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing and
distribution logistics, independent software vendor (ISV) and OEM relationships,
and customer support expenses.

CUSTOMER ACCEPTANCE.  While the Company performs extensive usability and beta
testing of new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates
ultimately dictate the success of development and marketing efforts.

PRICES.  Future product prices may decrease from historical levels, depending on
competitive market and cost factors.  European and Asian software prices vary by
country and are generally higher than in the United States to cover localization
costs and higher costs of distribution.  Increased global license agreements,
European monetary unification, or other factors could erode such price uplifts
in the future.

EARNINGS PROCESS.  An increasingly higher percentage of the Company's revenue is
subject to ratable recognition.  Subsequent product support and delivery of
unspecified enhancements require the applicable portion of revenue for certain
products to be recognized over the product's life cycle.  This policy may be
required for additional products, depending on specific license terms and
conditions.  Also, maintenance and other subscription programs may continue to
increase in popularity, particularly with organizations.

SATURATION.  Product upgrades, which enable users to upgrade from earlier
versions of the Company's products or from competitors' products, have lower
prices and margins than new products.  As the desktop applications market has
become saturated, the sales mix has shifted from standard products to upgrade
products.  This trend is likely to continue.

ORGANIZATION LICENSES.  Average revenue per unit from organization license
programs is lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions shipped
through the finished goods channels.  Unit sales under licensing programs may
continue to increase.

CHANNEL MIX.  Average revenue per license is lower from OEM licenses than from
retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs of operations in
the OEM channel.  An increasingly higher percentage of revenue was achieved
through the OEM channel during 1997 and 1998.

COST OF REVENUE.  Although cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased
in 1997 and 1998, it varies with channel mix, product mix within channels, and
usage of online operations.  The trend of declining cost of revenue as a
percentage of revenue is unlikely to continue in 1999.

PAY AND PARTICIPATION MODEL.  Microsoft employees currently receive salaries,
incentive bonuses, other fringe benefits, and stock options.  New government
regulations, poor stock price performance, or other factors could diminish the
value of the option program to current and prospective employees and force the
Company into more of a cash compensation model.  Had the Company paid employees
in cash the grant date Black-Scholes value of options vested in 1996, 1997, and
1998, the pretax expense would have been approximately $450 million, $620
million, and $850 million.

LONG-TERM RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT CYCLE.  Developing and localizing
software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a
long payback cycle.  The Company plans to continue significant investments in
software research and development and related product opportunities from which
significant revenue is not anticipated for a number of years.  Management
expects total spending for research and development in 1999 to increase over
spending in 1998.

SALES, MARKETING, AND SUPPORT INVESTMENTS.  The Company's plans for 1999 include
accelerated investments in its sales, marketing, and support groups.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE.  A large percentage of the Company's sales, costs of
manufacturing, and marketing is transacted in local currencies.  As a result,
the Company's international results of operations are subject to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations.

INVESTMENTS VALUE SENSITIVITY.  The Company's investment portfolio is subject to
interest rate and market price risk.  A 10% increase in treasury security yields
would reduce the carrying value of interest-sensitive securities at June 30,
1998 by $128 million, and a 10% decrease in market values would reduce the
carrying value of the Company's publicly traded equity securities by $300
million.  Many of these equity securities are highly volatile stocks.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.  Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual
property rights, but unlicensed copying of software represents a loss of revenue
to the Company.  While this adversely affects U.S. revenue, revenue loss is even
more significant outside of the United States, particularly in countries where
laws are less protective of intellectual property rights.  Throughout the world,
Microsoft actively educates consumers on the benefits of licensing genuine
products and educates lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected.  However, continued efforts may not
affect revenue positively.

FUTURE GROWTH RATE.  The revenue growth rate in 1999 may not approach the level
attained in prior years.  As discussed previously, operating expenses are
expected to increase in 1999.  Because of the fixed nature of a significant
portion of such expenses, coupled with the possibility of slower revenue growth,
operating margins in 1999 may decrease from those in 1998.

LITIGATION.  Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and
copyrights occurs in the PC software industry.  In addition, there are
government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate
legal risks.

YEAR 2000.  The Year 2000 presents potential concerns for business and consumer
computing.  The consequences of this issue may include systems failures and
business process interruption.  It may also include additional business and
competitive differentiation.  Aside from the well-known calculation problems
with the use of 2-digit date formats as the year changes from 1999 to 2000, the
Year 2000 is a special case leap year and in many organizations using older
technology, dates were used for special programmatic functions.

The problem exists for many kinds of software and hardware, including
mainframes, mini computers, PCs, and embedded systems.  Microsoft is in the
process of gathering, testing, and producing information about Microsoft
technologies impacted by the Year 2000 transition.  First, Microsoft classified
its core products into categories of compliance: compliant, compliant with minor
issues, and not compliant.  Second, if a product is stated to be non-compliant,
Microsoft will provide information as to how an organization could bring that
product into compliance.  Microsoft is issuing patches and/or workarounds at no
additional charge for most issues.  Third, Microsoft is working to help
organizations find solutions to Year 2000 problems.  The technologies and
services offered by Microsoft and companies it works with can be components in
overall Year 2000 solutions.  Microsoft is assisting companies with the task of
recognizing how disparate technologies can fit together to create a viable
solution set.

Current information about the Company's product, business, and technical
concerns is available at the Microsoft Year 2000 Resource Center Web site
(www.microsoft.com/year2000).  The Web site also contains information about
obtaining software patches to resolve various Year 2000 issues in certain

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
Microsoft products.  Information on the Company's Web site is provided to
customers for the sole purpose of assisting in planning for the transition to
the Year 2000.  Such information is the most currently available concerning the
behavior of the Company's products in the next century and is provided "as is"
without warranty of any kind.  However, variability of definitions of
"compliance" with the Year 2000 and of different combinations of software,
firmware, and hardware will likely lead to lawsuits against the Company.  The
outcome of such lawsuits and the impact on the Company are not estimable at this
time.

The Year 2000 issue also affects the Company's internal systems, including
information technology (IT) and non-IT systems.  Microsoft is assessing the
readiness of its systems for handling the Year 2000.  Although the assessment is
still underway, management currently believes that all material systems will be
compliant by the Year 2000 and that the cost to address the issues is not
material.  Nevertheless, Microsoft is creating contingency plans for certain
internal systems.

All organizations dealing with the Year 2000 must address the effect this issue
will have on their third-party supply chain.  Microsoft is undertaking steps to
identify its vendors and to formulate a system of working with key third-parties
to understand their ability to continue providing services and products through
the change to 2000.  Microsoft will work directly with its key vendors,
distributors, and resellers,  and partner with them if necessary, to avoid any
business interruptions in 2000.  For these key third-parties, contingency plans
will be developed.

Resolving Year 2000 issues is a worldwide phenomenon that will likely absorb a
substantial portion of IT budgets and attention in the near term.  Certain
industry analysts believe the Year 2000 issue will accelerate the trend toward
distributed PC-based systems from mainframe systems, while others believe a
majority of IT resources will be devoted to fixing older mainframe software in
lieu of large-scale transitions to systems based on software such as that sold
by Microsoft.  The impact of the Year 2000 on future Microsoft revenue is
difficult to discern but is a risk to be considered in evaluating future growth
of the Company.

                                       8
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.4
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.4




                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                        


        Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1998

        Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1998

        Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1997 and 1998

        Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1998

        Notes to Financial Statements

        Independent Auditors' Report

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
INCOME STATEMENTS
(In millions, except earnings per share)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                         1996          1997         1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>                   <C>           <C>
Revenue                                                                     $8,671       $11,358      $14,484
Operating expenses:
     Cost of revenue                                                         1,188         1,085        1,197
     Research and development                                                1,432         1,925        2,502
     Acquired in-process technology                                             --            --          296
     Sales and marketing                                                     2,657         2,856        3,412
     General and administrative                                                316           362          433
     Other expenses                                                             19           259          230
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total operating expenses                                            5,612         6,487        8,070
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                                             3,059         4,871        6,414
Interest income                                                                320           443          703
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Income before income taxes                                                   3,379         5,314        7,117
Provision for income taxes                                                   1,184         1,860        2,627
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Net income                                                                   2,195         3,454        4,490
Preferred stock dividends                                                       --            15           28
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available for common shareholders                                $2,195       $ 3,439      $ 4,462
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per share (1):
     Basic                                                                  $ 0.93       $  1.44      $  1.83
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Diluted                                                                $ 0.86       $  1.32      $  1.67
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
                                                                                
(1) Earnings per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split
    in February 1998.

See accompanying notes.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                               1996            1997           1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operations
<S>                                                         <C>             <C>             <C>
     Net income                                                   $ 2,195         $ 3,454        $ 4,490
     Depreciation and amortization                                    480             557          1,024
     Write-off of acquired in-process technology                       --              --            296
     Unearned revenue                                                 983           1,601          3,268
     Recognition of unearned revenue from prior periods              (477)           (743)        (1,798)
     Other current liabilities                                        584             321            208
     Accounts receivable                                              (71)           (336)          (520)
     Other current assets                                              25            (165)           (88)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash from operations                                   3,719           4,689          6,880
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financing
     Common stock issued                                              504             744            959
     Common stock repurchased                                      (1,385)         (3,101)        (2,468)
     Put warrant proceeds                                             124              95            538
     Preferred stock issued                                            --             980             --
     Preferred stock dividends                                         --             (15)           (28)
     Stock option income tax benefits                                 352             796          1,553
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash from (used for) financing                          (405)           (501)           554
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investments
     Additions to property and equipment                             (494)           (499)          (656)
     Cash portion of WebTV purchase price                              --              --           (190)
     Equity investments and other                                    (625)         (1,669)        (1,598)
     Short-term investments                                        (1,551)           (921)        (4,828)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash used for investments                             (2,670)         (3,089)        (7,272)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net change in cash and equivalents                                    644           1,099            162
Effect of exchange rates on cash and equivalents                       (5)              6            (29)
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year                             1,962           2,601          3,706
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and equivalents, end of year                                   2,601           3,706          3,839
Short-term investments                                              4,339           5,260         10,088
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and short-term investments                                   $ 6,940         $ 8,966        $13,927
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
                                                                                
See accompanying notes.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                                                          1997          1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                          <C>           <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and short-term investments                                                 $ 8,966       $13,927
  Accounts receivable                                                                 980         1,460
  Other                                                                               427           502
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current assets                                                           10,373        15,889
Property and equipment                                                              1,465         1,505
Equity investments                                                                  2,346         4,703
Other assets                                                                          203           260
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total assets                                                                $14,387       $22,357
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable                                                                $   721       $   759
  Accrued compensation                                                                336           359
  Income taxes payable                                                                466           915
  Unearned revenue                                                                  1,418         2,888
  Other                                                                               669           809
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current liabilities                                                       3,610         5,730
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
  Convertible preferred stock--shares authorized 100;
    shares issued and outstanding 13                                                  980           980
  Common stock and paid-in capital--shares authorized 8,000;
    shares issued and outstanding 2,408 and 2,470                                   4,509         8,025
  Retained earnings                                                                 5,288         7,622
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total stockholders' equity                                                     10,777        16,627
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                  $14,387       $22,357
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  See accompanying notes.


                                       4
<PAGE>
 
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY STATEMENTS
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                 1996           1997           1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>            <C>
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
  Balance, beginning of year                                             --             --        $   980
  Convertible preferred stock issued                                     --        $   980             --
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                                 --            980            980
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMMON STOCK AND PAID-IN CAPITAL
  Balance, beginning of year                                        $ 2,005          2,924          4,509
  Common stock issued                                                   504            744          1,262
  Common stock repurchased                                              (41)           (91)          (165)
  Structured repurchases price differential                              --             --            328
  Proceeds from sale of put warrants                                    124             95            538
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                            (20)            45             --
  Stock option income tax benefits                                      352            792          1,553
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                              2,924          4,509          8,025
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RETAINED EARNINGS
  Balance, beginning of year                                          3,328          3,984          5,288
  Net income                                                          2,195          3,454          4,490
  Preferred stock dividends                                              --            (15)           (28)
  Common stock repurchased                                           (1,344)        (3,010)        (2,631)
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                           (210)           590             --
  Net unrealized investment gains and other                              15            285            503
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                              3,984          5,288          7,622
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total stockholders' equity                                    $ 6,908        $10,777        $16,627
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
                                                                                
See accompanying notes.


                                       5
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  The financial statements include the accounts of
Microsoft and its subsidiaries.  Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated.  Investments in 50% owned joint ventures are
accounted for using the equity method; the Company's share of joint ventures'
activities is reflected in other expenses.

ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS.  Preparing financial statements requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue, and expenses.  Examples include provisions for returns and
bad debts and the length of product life cycles and buildings' lives.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates.

FOREIGN CURRENCIES.  Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are
translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date.  Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to equity.
Revenue, costs, and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year.  Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions
are included in other expenses.

REVENUE RECOGNITION.  Revenue is recognized when earned.  The Company's revenue
recognition policies are in compliance with American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants Statements of Position 97-2 and 98-4, Software Revenue
Recognition.  Revenue from products licensed to original equipment manufacturers
is recorded when OEMs ship licensed products while revenue from organization
license programs is recorded when the software has been delivered and the
customer is invoiced.  Revenue from packaged product sales to distributors and
resellers is recorded when related products are shipped.  Maintenance and
subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period.  Revenue
attributable to significant support (technical support and unspecified
enhancements such as service packs and Internet browser updates) is based on the
price charged or derived value of the undelivered elements and is recognized
ratably on a straight-line basis over the product's life cycle.  Costs related
to insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain
products, are accrued.  Provisions are recorded for returns and bad debts.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  Research and development costs are expensed as
incurred.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 86, Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed, does
not materially affect the Company.

TELEPHONE SUPPORT.  Telephone support costs are included in sales and marketing.

INCOME TAXES.  Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes,
plus an accrual for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international
subsidiaries.  Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax
returns and financial statements in the same year.  The tax effect of this
difference is reported as deferred income taxes.  Tax credits are accounted for
as a reduction of tax expense in the year in which the credits reduce taxes
payable.

STOCK SPLIT.  In February 1998, outstanding shares of common stock were split
two-for-one.  All share and per share amounts have been restated.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.  The Company considers all liquid interest-earning
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to
be cash equivalents.  Short-term investments generally mature between three
months and five years from the purchase date.  All cash and short-term
investments are classified as available for sale and are recorded at market.
Cost approximates market for all classifications of cash and short-term
investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses were not material.

Publicly tradeable equity securities are recorded at market; unrealized gains
and losses are reflected in stockholders' equity.  The pretax unrealized gain
was $1.4 billion at June 30, 1998.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT.  Property and equipment is stated at cost and
depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated
life of the asset or the lease term, ranging from one to 30 years.

RECLASSIFICATIONS.  Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent
presentation.


                                       6
<PAGE>
 
UNEARNED REVENUE

Microsoft believes that Internet technologies are integral to its products and
has committed to integrating these technologies, such as its browser software,
Microsoft Internet Explorer, into existing products at no additional cost to its
customers.  Given this strategy and other commitments such as telephone support,
Internet-based technical support, and unspecified product enhancements,
Microsoft recognizes approximately 20% of Windows operating systems OEM revenue
and approximately 35% of retail versions revenue over the product life cycles,
currently estimated at two years.  The unearned portion of revenue from Windows
operating systems was $860 million and $1.19 billion at June 30, 1997 and 1998.

Since Office 97 is also tightly integrated with the Internet, and in the view of
subsequent delivery of new Internet technologies, enhancements, and other
support, a ratable revenue recognition policy was implemented for Office 97.
Approximately 20% of Office 97 revenue is recognized ratably over the estimated
18-month product life cycle. Unearned revenue associated with Office 97 totaled
$300 million and $770 million at June 30, 1997 and 1998.

Unearned revenue also includes maintenance and other subscription contracts,
including organization license agreements.

FINANCIAL RISKS

The Company's investment portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of
short-term investment grade securities.  Interest rate fluctuations impact the
carrying value of the portfolio.  While no hedge was in place on June 30, 1998,
the Company routinely hedges the portfolio in case of a catastrophic increase in
interest rates.  At June 30, 1997 and 1998, approximately 31% and 40% of
accounts receivable represented amounts due from ten customers.  One customer
accounted for approximately 13%, 12%, and 8% of revenue in 1996, 1997, and 1998.

Finished goods sales to international customers in Europe, Japan, and Australia
are primarily billed in local currencies.  Payment cycles are relatively short,
generally less than 90 days.  European manufacturing costs and international
selling, distribution, and support costs are generally disbursed in local
currencies.  Local currency cash balances in excess of short-term operating
needs are generally converted into U.S. dollar cash and short-term investments
on receipt.  Therefore, foreign exchange rate fluctuations generally do not
create a risk of material balance sheet gains or losses.  As a result,
Microsoft's hedging activities for balance sheet exposures have been minimal.

Foreign exchange rates affect the translated results of operations of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries.  The Company hedges a percentage of planned
international revenue with purchased options.  The notional amount of the
options outstanding at June 30, 1998 was $2.1 billion.  At June 30, 1998, the
fair value and premiums paid for the options were not material.

CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                    1997        1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>        <C>
Cash and equivalents:
  Cash                                      $  246      $   195
  Commercial paper                           1,660        2,771
  Money market preferreds                      946          454
  Certificates of deposit                      854          419
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Cash and equivalents                     3,706        3,839
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term investments:
  Commercial paper                             261          868
  Municipal securities                         571        1,361
  Corporate notes and bonds                  1,907        3,998
  U.S. government and agency securities      1,513        3,511
  Certificates of deposit                    1,008          350
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Short-term investments                   5,260       10,088
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
      Cash and short-term investments       $8,966      $13,927
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       7
<PAGE>
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                     1997         1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>          <C>
Land                                        $   183      $   183
Buildings                                     1,027        1,259
Computer equipment                            1,064        1,182
Other                                           503          428
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
  Property and equipment--at cost             2,777        3,052
Accumulated depreciation                     (1,312)      (1,547)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
    Property and equipment--net             $ 1,465      $ 1,505
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

During 1997 and 1998, depreciation expense, of which the majority related to
computer equipment, was $353 million and $528 million; disposals were
immaterial.

INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes consisted of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                    1996         1997         1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>          <C>          <C>
Current taxes:
  U.S. and state                       $1,139       $1,710       $2,518
  International                           285          412          526
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Current taxes                       1,424        2,122        3,044
Deferred taxes                           (240)        (262)        (417)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
      Provision for income taxes       $1,184       $1,860       $2,627
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                1996        1997        1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>         <C>         <C>
U.S.                               $2,356      $3,775      $5,072
International                       1,023       1,539       2,045
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Income before income taxes       $3,379      $5,314      $7,117
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The effective income tax rate was 35.0% in 1996 and 1997.  The effective tax
rate increased to 36.9% in 1998 due to the nondeductible write-off of WebTV in-
process technologies.

Income taxes payable were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                     1997          1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>          <C>
Deferred income tax assets:
  Revenue items                               $ 474       $   713
  Expense items                                 505           613
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred income tax assets                  979         1,326
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred income tax liabilities:
  Unrealized gain on investments                             (479)
  International earnings                       (465)         (373)
  Other                                          (4)          (26)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred income tax liabilities            (469)         (878)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Current income tax liabilities                 (976)       (1,363)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Income taxes payable                        $(466)      $  (915)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Income taxes have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for all
years through 1989.  The IRS has assessed taxes for 1990 and 1991 which the
Company is contesting in Tax Court.  The IRS is examining the Company's U.S.
income tax returns for 1992 through 1994. Management believes any related
adjustments that might be required will not be material to the financial
statements.  Income taxes paid were $758 million in 1996, $1.1 billion in 1997,
and $1.1 billion in 1998.


CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK



                                       8
<PAGE>
 
During 1996, Microsoft issued 12.5 million shares of 2.75% convertible
exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock.  Dividends are payable
quarterly in arrears.  Preferred shareholders have preference over common
stockholders in dividends and liquidation rights.  In December 1999, each
preferred share is convertible into common shares or an equivalent amount of
cash determined by a formula that provides a floor price of $79.875 and a cap of
$102.24 per preferred share.  Net proceeds of $980 million were used to
repurchase common shares.


COMMON STOCK

ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING  Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                1996         1997         1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>          <C>          <C>
Balance, beginning of year          2,352        2,388        2,408
Issued                                 88           94          101
Repurchased                           (52)         (74)         (39)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Balance, end of year              2,388        2,408        2,470
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

REPURCHASE PROGRAM  The Company repurchases its common stock in the open market
to provide shares for issuing to employees under stock option and stock purchase
plans.  The Company's Board of Directors authorized continuation of this program
in 1999.

In addition, under structured repurchases with an independent third-party, the
Company executed two forward purchases totaling 21 million shares of stock.
Under these arrangements, a portion of the purchase price will be paid in the
next five or six years and determined based upon the price of Microsoft common
stock at that time.  The timing and method of payment (net share or cash) is at
the discretion of the Company.  The differential between the cash paid and the
price of Microsoft common stock on the two dates of agreement is reflected in
common stock and paid-in capital.

PUT WARRANTS

To enhance its stock repurchase program, the Company sells put warrants to
independent third-parties.  These put warrants entitle the holders to sell
shares of Microsoft common stock to the Company on certain dates at specified
prices.  On June 30, 1998, 60 million warrants were outstanding.  The
outstanding put warrants at June 30, 1998 expire between November 1998 and June
2000 and have strike prices ranging from $72 to $77 per share.  The outstanding
put warrants permit a net-share settlement at the Company's option and do not
result in a put warrant liability on the balance sheet.

EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN  The Company has an employee stock purchase plan
for all eligible employees.  Under the plan, shares of the Company's common
stock may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of the lower of the fair
market value on the first or the last day of each six-month period.  Employees
may purchase shares having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation
during an offering period.  During 1996, 1997, and 1998, employees purchased 3.6
million, 2.8 million, and 2.2 million shares at average prices of $18.86,
$29.82, and $54.42 per share.  At June 30, 1998, 36.8 million shares were
reserved for future issuance.

SAVINGS PLAN  The Company has a savings plan, which qualifies under Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Participating employees may defer up to
15% of pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits.  The Company
contributes fifty cents for each dollar a participant contributes, with a
maximum contribution of 3% of a participant's earnings.  Matching contributions
were $15 million, $28 million, and $39 million in 1996, 1997, and 1998.

STOCK OPTION PLANS  The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers,
and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options.  The
option exercise price is the fair market value at the date of grant.  Options
granted prior to 1995 generally vest over four and one-half years and expire 10
years from the date of grant.  Options granted during and after 1995 generally
vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date of grant,
while certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire after 10
years.  At June 30, 1998, options for 222 million shares were vested and 523
million shares were available for future grants under the plans.

Stock options outstanding were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Price per Share
                                              --------------------------------
                                                                   Weighted
                                      Shares        Range           Average
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>         <C>                 <C>
Balance, June 30, 1995                  456      $ 0.39 - $20.79        $ 7.28

</TABLE> 



                                       9
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<S>                               <C>         <C>                 <C>
  Granted                               114       20.05 -  29.47         22.50
  Exercised                             (80)       0.39 -  22.63          5.38
  Canceled                              (14)       1.30 -  27.72         13.93
                                        ---
Balance, June 30, 1996                  476        0.55 -  29.47         11.04
  Granted                               110       27.66 -  59.60         29.15
  Exercised                             (90)       0.55 -  29.47          6.64
  Canceled                              (18)       8.50 -  48.57         19.42
                                        ---
Balance, June 30, 1997                  478        1.12 -  59.60         15.72
  GRANTED                                69       33.12 -  87.25         62.56
  EXERCISED                             (88)       1.12 -  62.47          9.27
  CANCELED                              (13)       1.32 -  83.88         29.37
                                        ---
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1998                  446        1.12 -  87.25         23.87
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics of outstanding stock
options at June 30, 1998 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                 Outstanding options             Exercisable options
                         -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Range of      Shares    Remaining    Weighted average   Shares     Weighted average
 exercise prices           life (years)       price                          price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>               <C>      <C>          <C>                 <C>      <C>
  $1.12-$8.50          85          2.7              $ 5.06       84                 $ 5.07
   8.51-11.94         100          4.4               10.47       83                  10.19
  11.95-27.25          97          4.9               21.62       38                  21.14
  27.26-59.60         100          5.6               29.81       17                  28.99
  59.61-87.25          64          6.5               64.00       --                     --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees, to account for stock option and employee stock purchase
plans.  No compensation cost is recognized because the option exercise price is
equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.

An alternative method of accounting for stock options is SFAS 123, Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation.  Under SFAS 123, employee stock options are valued
at grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model and compensation cost is
recognized ratably over the vesting period.  Had compensation cost for the
Company's stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined based
on the Black-Scholes value at the grant dates for awards as prescribed by SFAS
123, pro forma income statements for 1996, 1997, and 1998 would have been as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                                             1996                        1997                     1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   Reported     Pro forma      Reported     Pro forma      REPORTED     PRO FORMA
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenue                                                $8,671        $8,671       $11,358       $11,358       $14,484       $14,484
Operating expenses:
     Cost of revenue                                    1,188         1,204         1,085         1,107         1,197         1,227
     Research and development                           1,432         1,655         1,925         2,230         2,502         2,924
     Acquired in-process technology                        --            --            --            --           296           296
     Sales and marketing                                2,657         2,823         2,856         3,082         3,412         3,725
     General and administrative                           316           362           362           424           433           520
     Other expenses                                        19            19           259           259           230           230
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total operating expenses                      5,612         6,063         6,487         7,102         8,070         8,922
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                        3,059         2,608         4,871         4,256         6,414         5,562
Interest income                                           320           320           443           443           703           703
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                              3,379         2,928         5,314         4,699         7,117         6,265
Provision for income taxes                              1,184         1,026         1,860         1,646         2,627         2,325
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                              2,195         1,902         3,454         3,053         4,490         3,940
Preferred stock dividends                                  --            --            15            15            28            28
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available for common shareholders           $2,195        $1,902       $ 3,439       $ 3,038       $ 4,462       $ 3,912
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share                             $ 0.86        $ 0.74       $  1.32       $  1.16       $  1.67       $  1.47
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       10
<PAGE>
 
The pro forma disclosures in the previous table include the amortization of the
fair value of all options vested during 1996, 1997, and 1998, regardless of the
grant date.  If only options granted after 1996 were valued, as prescribed by
SFAS 123, pro forma net income would have been $2,073 million, $3,179 million,
and $4,019 million, and earnings per share would have been $0.81, $1.21, and
$1.50 for 1996, 1997, and 1998.

The weighted average Black-Scholes value of options granted under the stock
option plans during 1996, 1997, and 1998 was $8.86, $11.72, and $23.62.  Value
was estimated using an expected life of five years, no dividends, volatility of
 .32 in 1998 and .30 in prior years, and risk-free interest rates of 6.0%, 6.5%,
and 5.7% in 1996, 1997, and 1998.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding.  Diluted earnings per share is computed on the
basis of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus the
effect of outstanding preferred shares using the "if-converted" method, assumed
net-share settlement of common stock structured repurchases, and outstanding
stock options using the "treasury stock" method.

The components of basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                          1996       1997        1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>        <C>
Net income                                                   $2,195     $3,454      $4,490
Preferred stock dividends                                        --         15          28
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available for  common shareholders                $2,195     $3,439      $4,462
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Average outstanding shares of common stock                    2,368      2,391       2,432
Dilutive effect of:
   Common stock under structured repurchases                     --         --           3
   Preferred stock                                               --         13          17
   Employee stock options                                       193        218         229
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common stock and common stock equivalents                     2,561      2,622       2,681
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Earnings per share:
   Basic                                                     $ 0.93     $ 1.44      $ 1.83
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Diluted                                                   $ 0.86     $ 1.32      $ 1.67
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

ACQUISITION

In August 1997, Microsoft acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., an online service that
enables consumers to experience the Internet through their televisions via set-
top terminals based on proprietary technologies.  A director of the Company
owned 10% of WebTV.  Microsoft paid $425 million in stock and cash for WebTV.
The Company recorded an in-process technologies write-off of $296 million in the
first quarter of 1998.

SUBSEQUENT SALE

In August 1998, the Company sold a wholly-owned subsidiary, Softimage, Inc. to
Avid Technology, Inc.  A pretax gain of $160 million will be recognized in the
first quarter of 1999.  As part of a transitional service agreement, Microsoft
agreed to make certain development tools and management systems available to
Avid for use in the Softimage business.

COMMITMENTS

The Company has operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and
support offices and certain equipment.  Rental expense for operating leases was
$92 million, $92 million, and $95 million in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Future
minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, in millions of dollars,
are: 1999, $85; 2000, $72; 2001, $52; 2002, $25; 2003, $17; and thereafter, $17.

In connection with the Company's communications infrastructure and the operation
of online services, Microsoft has certain communication usage commitments.
Future related minimum commitments, in millions of dollars, are: 1999, $184;
2000, $100; and


                                       11
<PAGE>
 
2001, $30. Also, Microsoft has committed to certain volumes of outsourced
telephone support and manufacturing of packaged product and has committed $420
million for constructing new buildings.

During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
MSNBC joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel and an
interactive online news service.  Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a
five-year period for its interest in the cable venture, to pay one-half of
operational funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period, and to
guarantee a portion of MSNBC debt.

CONTINGENCIES

On October 7, 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. brought suit against Microsoft in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.  Sun's Complaint
alleges several claims against Microsoft, all related to the parties'
relationship under a March 11, 1996 Technology License and Distribution
Agreement (Agreement) concerning certain Java programming language technology.
The Complaint seeks: a preliminary and permanent injunction against Microsoft
distributing certain products with the Java Compatibility logo, and against
distributing Internet Explorer 4.0 unless certain alleged obligations are met;
an order compelling Microsoft to perform certain alleged obligations; an
accounting; termination of the Agreement; and an award of damages, including
compensatory, exemplary and punitive damages, and liquidated damages of $35
million for the alleged source code disclosure.

On March 24, 1998, the court entered an order enjoining Microsoft from using the
Java Compatibility logo on Internet Explorer 4.0 and the Microsoft Software
Developers Kit for Java 2.0.  Microsoft has taken steps to fully comply with the
order.

On May 12, 1998, Sun filed companion motions seeking a preliminary injunction
based on allegations of copyright infringement and unfair competition.  Sun
requested an order enjoining Microsoft from distributing any Java-based
technology in any operating system, browser, or developers tools, including
Windows 98, Internet Explorer 4.0 software, and the Visual J++(TM) 6.0
development system for Java, unless and until Microsoft includes with each such
product an implementation of the Java run-time environment that passes Sun's
compatibility test suite or an operable implementation of Sun's current Java
run-time environment.  The hearing for these motions is set for September 4,
1998.

On October 20, 1997, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice
(DOJ) filed a Petition for An Order To Show Cause in United States District
Court for the District of Columbia.  In its petition, the DOJ contends that
Microsoft has violated a 1994 consent decree by including Internet Explorer
technology in Windows 95, and by preventing OEMs from removing Internet Explorer
functionality from versions of Windows 95 the OEMs are licensed to install on
computer systems they sell.

On December 11, 1997, the district court entered two orders.  In the first
order, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson denied the DOJ's contempt petition, and
dismissed the DOJ's request for relief concerning Microsoft's non-disclosure
agreements because the DOJ had failed to present evidence that the agreements
had interfered with any DOJ investigation.  In addition, however, the court
ruled that there were disputed issues of fact regarding Microsoft's violation of
the consent decree, and concluded that the DOJ was likely to prevail on its
claim that a violation had occurred.  The court entered a preliminary injunction
sua sponte requiring Microsoft not to condition the licensing of Windows 95 or
- ----------                                                                    
any successor desktop operating system on a computer manufacturer also licensing
any Microsoft browser software, including Internet Explorer 3.0 or 4.0.  In the
second order, the court appointed Harvard Law Professor Lawrence Lessig as a
special master, to whom the court delegated the authority to conduct discovery,
take evidence, and make proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law on all
issues in the case by May 31, 1998.

Microsoft immediately appealed the preliminary injunction to the District of
Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals.  On May 5, 1998, Microsoft also sought a stay
of the District Court's injunction insofar as it applied to Windows 98.  On May
12, 1998, the Court of Appeals granted Microsoft's request for a stay.  The
Court of Appeals issued an opinion on Microsoft's appeal on June 23, 1998.  It
unanimously reversed the trial court, both as to the entry of the injunction and
the reference to the special master.  The opinion both cited procedural errors
in the issuance of the injunction and errors of substantive law in the
interpretation of the consent decree.  The court remanded the case to Judge
Jackson for further proceedings consistent with the Court's opinion.  There has
been no further action in that case since the Court of Appeals' decision.

Although the Court of Appeals could have reversed the district court solely on
procedural grounds, it chose to address at length the central issue in both the
consent decree case and in the new Sherman Act case brought by the DOJ and 20
state Attorneys General: whether Microsoft is unlawfully "tying" a "separate
product" known as Microsoft Internet Explorer to the Windows operating system.
Two members of the Court rejected the DOJ's main argument that Internet Explorer
constitutes a separate product because Microsoft treats it separately in some
circumstances.  (One judge dissented in part from the reasoning in this part of
the opinion.)  The Court's discussion of antitrust tying law, although made in
the context of the consent decree case, clearly provides guidance on many of the
issues raised in the new Sherman Act case.

On May 18, 1998, the DOJ and a group of 20 state Attorneys General filed two
antitrust cases against Microsoft in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia.  The DOJ complaint alleges violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act.  The DOJ complaint seeks declaratory relief as to the violations it
asserts and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief regarding: the inclusion
of Internet browsing software (or other software products) as part of Windows;
the terms of agreements regarding non-Microsoft Internet browsing software (or
other software products); taking or threatening "action adverse" in consequence
of a person's failure to license or distribute Microsoft Internet browsing
software (or other software product) or distributing competing 


                                       12
<PAGE>
 
products or cooperating with the government; and restrictions on the screens,
boot-up sequence, or functions of Microsoft's operating system products. The
state Attorneys General allege largely the same claims, and various pendent
state claims. The states seek declaratory relief, and preliminary and permanent
injunctive relief similar to that sought by the DOJ, together with statutory
penalties under the state law claims. The foregoing description is qualified in
its entirety by reference to the full text of the complaints and other papers on
file in those actions, case numbers 98-1232 and 98-1233.

On May 22, 1998, Judge Jackson consolidated the two actions.  Hearings for the
plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction, Microsoft's motion for summary
judgment, and a trial on the merits are scheduled to begin in September 1998.
Microsoft believes that the claims are without merit and intends to defend
against them vigorously.  In other ongoing investigations, the DOJ and several
state Attorneys General have requested information from Microsoft concerning
various issues.

Caldera, Inc. filed a lawsuit against Microsoft in July 1996.  It alleges
Sherman Act violations relating to Microsoft licensing practices of MS-DOS and
Windows in the late 80's and early 90's--essentially the same complaints that
resulted in the 1994 consent decree.  Caldera claims to own the rights of
Novell, Inc. and Digital Research Inc. relating to DR-DOS and Novell DOS
products.  It also asserts a claim that Windows 95 is a technological tie of
Windows and MS-DOS.  Fact discovery is scheduled to end in October 1998, and
trial is scheduled for June 1999.  Microsoft is vigorously defending the case.

Microsoft is also subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in
the ordinary course of business.

Management currently believes that resolving these matters will not have a
material adverse impact on the Company's financial position or its results of
operations.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                     1996          1997         1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>           <C>
REVENUE
  U.S. operations                      $ 6,739       $ 8,877      $11,331
  European operations                    2,215         2,770        3,719
  Other international operations         1,267         1,757        1,776
  Eliminations                          (1,550)       (2,046)      (2,342)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total revenue                      $ 8,671       $11,358      $14,484
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING INCOME
  U.S. operations                      $ 2,118       $ 3,474      $ 4,591
  European operations                      649         1,013        1,470
  Other international operations           297           469          423
  Eliminations                              (5)          (85)         (70)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating income             $ 3,059       $ 4,871      $ 6,414
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
  U.S. operations                      $ 8,193       $11,630      $18,294
  European operations                    2,280         3,395        5,052
  Other international operations         1,042           705        1,113
  Eliminations                          (1,422)       (1,343)      (2,102)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total identifiable assets          $10,093       $14,387      $22,357
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
representative of unaffiliated party transactions.  "U.S. operations" include
shipments to customers in the United States, licensing to OEMs, and exports of
finished goods directly to international customers, primarily in Asia, South
America, and Canada.  Exports and international OEM transactions are primarily
in U.S. dollars and totaled $2.1 billion, $2.3 billion, and $2.9 billion in
1996, 1997, and 1998.

"Other international operations" primarily include subsidiaries in Japan,
Canada, Australia, and Brazil.  International revenue, which includes European
operations, other international operations, exports, and OEM distribution, was
56%, 56%, and 53% of total revenue in 1996, 1997, and 1998.  Most international
identifiable assets are U.S. dollar denominated investment securities.


                                       13
<PAGE>
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries as of June 30, 1997 and 1998, and the related statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders' equity for each of the three years ended June 30,
1998. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries as of
June 30, 1997 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years ended June 30, 1998 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.


/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Seattle, Washington
July 16, 1998
(August 3, 1998 as to Subsequent Sale Note)

                                       14
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

SUBSIDIARIES

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399

Microsoft FSC Corp. (U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS)

Microsoft Investments, Inc. (NEVADA)

Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited (IRELAND)

Microsoft Licensing, Inc. (NEVADA)

Microsoft Puerto Rico, Inc. (Manufacturing) (DELAWARE)

The Microsoft Network L.L.C. (DELAWARE)

GraceMac Corporation (NEVADA)

Microsoft de Argentina S.A.

Microsoft Pty. Limited (AUSTRALIA)

Microsoft Gesellschaft m.b.H. (AUSTRIA)

Microsoft N.V.  (BELGIUM)

Microsoft Informatica Limitada (BRAZIL)

Microsoft Canada Co.

SOFTIMAGE, Inc. (CANADA)

Microsoft Chile S.A.

Microsoft Colombia Inc. (DELAWARE)

Microsoft de Centroamerica S.A. (COSTA RICA)

Microsoft Hrvatska d.o.o. (CROATIA)

Microsoft s.r.o. (CZECH REPUBLIC)

Microsoft Danmark ApS (DENMARK)

Microsoft Dominicana, S.A. (DOMINICAN REPUBLIC)

Microsoft Del Ecuador S.A.

Microsoft El Salvador S.A. de C.V.

Microsoft Corporation (Representative Office) (EGYPT)

Microsoft Oy (FINLAND)

Microsoft France S.A.R.L.

Microsoft G.m.b.H. (GERMANY)

Microsoft Hellas S.A. (GREECE)

Microsoft de Guatemala, S.A.

Microsoft Hong Kong Limited

Microsoft Hungary Kft.

Microsoft Corporation (India) Private Limited

Microsoft India (R&D) Private Limited

PT. Microsoft Indonesia

Microsoft Israel Ltd.

Microsoft S.p.A. (ITALY)

Microsoft Cote d'Ivoire (IVORY COAST)

Microsoft Company, Limited (JAPAN)

East Africa Software Limited (KENYA)

Microsoft CH (KOREA)

Microsoft (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Microsoft Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
<PAGE>
 
Microsoft Indian Ocean Islands Limited (MAURITIUS)

Microsoft Maroc S.A.R.L. (MOROCCO)

Microsoft B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)

Microsoft International B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)

Microsoft New Zealand Limited

Microsoft Norge AS (NORWAY)

Microsoft de Panama, S.A.

Microsoft (China) Company Limited (THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA)

Microsoft Peru, S.A.

Microsoft Philippines, Inc.

Microsoft sp. z.o.o. (POLAND)

MSFT-Software Para Microcomputadores, LDA (PORTUGAL)

Microsoft Caribbean, Inc. (PUERTO RICO) (DELAWARE)

Microsoft Romania SRL

Microsoft ZAO (RUSSIA)

Microsoft Manufacturing B.V. (Representative Office )(RUSSIA)

Microsoft Singapore Pte Ltd.

Microsoft Slovakia s.r.o.

Microsoft d.o.o., Ljubljana (SLOVENIA)

Microsoft (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited (SOUTH AFRICA)

Microsoft Iberica S.R.L. (SPAIN)

Microsoft Aktiebolag (SWEDEN)

Microsoft AG (SWITZERLAND)

Microsoft Taiwan Corporation

Microsoft (Thailand) Limited

Microsoft Bilgisayar Yazilim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi (TURKEY)

Microsoft Corporation (UNITED ARAB EMIRATES)

Microsoft Limited (UNITED KINGDOM)

Microsoft Research Limited (UNITED KINGDOM)

Microsoft Uruguay, S.A.

Microsoft Venezuela, S.A.

The Resident Representative Office of MICROSOFT Corporation in Hanoi (VIETNAM)

Microsoft Corporation (Representative Office)(ZIMBABWE)

WebTV Networks, Inc. (California)

DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C. (WASHINGTON, 50% owned)

MSBET L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)

MSFDC L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)

MSNBC Cable, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)

MSNBC Interactive News, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)

Ninemsn Pty. Limited (AUSTRALIA)

WebTV Networks K.K. (JAPAN)
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT

Microsoft Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Numbers
33-06335, 33-18381, 33-25575, 33-33695, and 33-37623 (Microsoft Corporation 1981
Stock Option Plan), 33-44302 and 33-51583 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock
Option Plan), 33-37622 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan), 33-10732 (Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan), 33-36498 (Microsoft
Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors), 33-45617 (Microsoft
Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors), 333-16665
(Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan), 333-61729 (Microsoft
Corporation 1998 Special Stock Award Program), and 33-06298 of Microsoft
Corporation on Forms S-8 and 33-29823, 33-34794, 33-36347, 33-46958, 33-49496,
33-56039, 33-57277, 33-57899, 33-58867, 33-62725, 33-63471, 33-64870, 333-857,
333-1177, 333-2759, 333-5961, 333-8081, 333-12441, 333-17143, 333-18055, 333-
18195, 333-23621, 333-31803,333-37841, 333-41387, 333-43449, 333-45989, 333-
52377, and 333-61507 of Microsoft Corporation on Forms S-3, and 333-26411 of
Microsoft Corporation on Form S-4 of our report dated July 17, 1997 (August 1,
1997 as to Acquisition Note) appearing in and incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the year ended June 30,
1998.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Seattle, Washington
September 23, 1998
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
 
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary financial information extracted form the
accompanying financial statements and is qualified in its entirety by reference
to such financial statements.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1998
<CASH>                                          13,927
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                    1,460
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                          0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                15,889
<PP&E>                                           3,052
<DEPRECIATION>                                   1,547
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  22,357
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            5,730
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                        980
<COMMON>                                         8,025
<OTHER-SE>                                       7,622
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    22,357
<SALES>                                         14,484
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                14,484
<CGS>                                            1,197
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    1,197
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 6,873
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  7,117
<INCOME-TAX>                                     2,627
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              4,462
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     4,462
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     1.83
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.67
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
