-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NnGCIW1G3qucscr75wiOXIm7IV8/XpYWOT4HH0feIYrbMyrP9n/gAX8gRtEleXNV
 9LESthr12INoIrSMxbQvWw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000891020-95-000433.txt : 19950928
<SEC-HEADER>0000891020-95-000433.hdr.sgml : 19950927
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891020-95-000433
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19950630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950925
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		95575998

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY #BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2068828080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY - BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
</SEC-HEADER>
<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000891020-95-000433.txt : 19950927
<SEC-HEADER>0000891020-95-000433.hdr.sgml : 19950927
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891020-95-000433
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19950630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950925
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		95575998

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY #BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2068828080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY - BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
       /X/   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
     
                           FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1995
 
       / /   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM      TO
 
                            -----------------------------
 
                           COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-14278
 
                                MICROSOFT CORPORATION
               (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
<TABLE>
   <S>                                                     <C>
                  WASHINGTON                                    91-1144442
       (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                       (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
        INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                     IDENTIFICATION NO.)

    ONE MICROSOFT WAY, REDMOND, WASHINGTON                      98052-6399
   (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICE)                      (ZIP CODE)
</TABLE>
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (206) 882-8080
 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
    SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: COMMON STOCK
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/     No / /
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /
 
     The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of September 8, 1995 was $34,330,611,220.
 
     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
September 8, 1995 was 589,952,132.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated September 25, 1995 to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held October 27, 1995 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>   2
 
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1995
 
                                     INDEX
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                           PAGE
                                                                                           ----
<S>         <C>                                                                            <C>
                                                PART I
Item 1.     Business.....................................................................    1
Item 2.     Properties...................................................................   10
Item 3.     Legal Proceedings............................................................   11
Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..........................   11
Item E.O.   Executive Officers of the Registrant.........................................   11
                                               PART II
Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters.........   13
Item 6.     Selected Financial Data......................................................   14
Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
            Operations...................................................................   14
Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..................................   18
Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
            Disclosures..................................................................   18
                                              PART III
Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...........................   30
Item 11.    Executive Compensation.......................................................   30
Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...............   30
Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...............................   30
                                              PART IV
Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K..............   31
Signatures...............................................................................   33
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   3
 
                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" or "Microsoft") was founded as a
partnership in 1975 and incorporated in 1981. Microsoft develops, manufactures,
licenses, sells, and supports a wide range of software products, including
operating systems for personal computers (PCs), workstations, and servers;
business and consumer programs for productivity, reference, education, and
entertainment; and development tools. Microsoft also markets personal computer
books and input devices and is engaged in the research and development of online
and advanced technology software products. Microsoft(R) products are available
for most PCs, including Intel-type microprocessor-based computers and Apple
computers.
 
     Microsoft's business strategy emphasizes the development of a broad line of
microcomputer software products for business and personal use, marketed through
multiple channels of distribution. The Company is divided into four main groups:
the Platforms Product Group; the Applications and Content Product Group; the
Sales and Support Group; and the Operations Group.
 
     The Platforms Product Group is comprised of four divisions, each
responsible for a particular area of platforms software development and
marketing. The Personal Systems Division designs and develops operating systems
and technologies (such as multimedia, user interface, and online browsers) for
general and home PC users. The Business Systems Division is responsible for
computing solutions for corporate and enterprise use, including client-server
operating systems, networking products, and server and workgroup applications.
The Developer Division creates database products, as well as programming
language products and software development tools. The Consumer Systems Division
is developing software products and technologies for use on the emerging public
networks, including future interactive television networks, and for creating
advanced multimedia applications, such as 3D titles.
 
     The Applications and Content Product Group has two divisions that create
and market productivity programs for PCs and multimedia content titles. The
group also includes online systems and research. The Desktop Applications
Division creates productivity applications. The Consumer Division develops
products designed for the home, school, and small business market, including
multimedia consumer products and PC input devices. The MSN Division is
responsible for an online and Internet service. Microsoft Research is a research
lab dedicated to creating new technology in support of the Company's vision for
the evolution of personal computing.
 
     The Sales and Support Group is responsible for building long-term business
relationships with customers. This group is organized to serve three customer
types: OEMs (original equipment manufacturers), end users, and organizations.
The Sales and Support Group manages the channels that serve those customers.
These include the OEM channel and the following geographic channels: U.S. and
Canada, Europe, and Other International. The group also provides support for the
Company's products through Product Support Services, Consulting Services, and
Solutions Providers.
 
     The Operations Group is responsible for managing business operations and
overall business planning. This includes the process of manufacturing and
delivering finished goods, licenses, subscriptions, and fulfillment orders; the
publishing efforts of Microsoft Press; and other corporate functions.
 
PRODUCTS
 
     PERSONAL SYSTEMS
 
     The Personal Systems Division develops desktop operating systems software,
which performs operations such as allocating computer memory, scheduling the
execution of applications software, and managing the flow of information and
communication among the various components of the PC. The division's primary
desktop operating systems for PCs are: Microsoft Windows(R) 95, Microsoft
MS-DOS(R), Microsoft Windows 3.1, and Microsoft Windows for Workgroups. (Windows
3.1 and Windows for Workgroups 3.11 are hereafter referred to collectively as
"Windows 3.x.")
 
                                        1
<PAGE>   4
 
     Windows 95: Microsoft's new personal operating system, designed to be the
successor to MS-DOS and Windows 3.x, was released commercially on August 24,
1995. Windows 95 is a fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit operating system,
compatible with mainstream PCs and most Windows 3.x and MS-DOS software
applications. Windows 95 was also designed for the next generation of
applications, games, PCs, and peripherals.
 
     MS-DOS: Microsoft MS-DOS is a single-user, single-tasking operating system
designed for PCs that utilize Intel microprocessor chips. Since the introduction
of MS-DOS in 1981, the Company has enhanced MS-DOS as new technologies have
developed and new user needs have arisen. MS-DOS has been preinstalled by OEMs
on most PCs.
 
     Windows 3.1: Microsoft Windows 3.1 is a graphical operating system for
MS-DOS-based PCs. Microsoft Windows 3.1 supports high-performance Windows-based
applications, and offers ease of use and aesthetic appeal, scalable TrueType(R)
fonts, built-in multimedia functionality, and straightforward integration into
corporate computing environments.
 
     Windows for Workgroups 3.11: Windows for Workgroups 3.11 integrates network
and workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system. With
Windows for Workgroups, users can share files, data, and printers, with ease of
access and security.
 
     BUSINESS SYSTEMS
 
     The Business Systems Division is focused on delivering a broad range of
business computing solutions for organizations. The division develops and
markets an integrated product line of software for creating business solutions,
including foundation operating systems for servers and workstations, as well as
applications for business servers. Server applications development is divided
into the areas of databases, connectivity, systems management, and workgroup
applications. Server software products are marketed separately or as a part of
an integrated family of products, the Microsoft BackOffice(TM). The BackOffice
family includes the following key products.
 
     Windows NT Workstation and Server: Microsoft Windows NT(TM) Workstation is
a powerful desktop operating system designed for demanding business needs. It is
a 32-bit, multithreaded operating system for mission critical computing which
provides the same feature and applications programming interface (API) set
across four hardware platforms: Intel, Alpha AXP, MIPS, and Power PC. The
operating system provides integrated mail and networking with remote access,
pre-emptive multitasking, and support for background communication sessions. The
Windows NT Server is designed to be the network foundation for a new generation
of business applications. It provides extensive network management features,
administration tools, security, and fault tolerance. It is a platform for
business critical applications and database, connectivity, system management,
and mail servers.
 
     SQL Server: Microsoft SQL Server is a high-performance relational database
management system designed specifically for distributed computing. SQL Server
supports the Structured Query Language, which is a commonly used language
through which application programs communicate with relational databases. The
Company provides SQL Server for Windows NT systems. This product is developed in
the Developer Division and marketed as part of BackOffice by the Business
Systems Division.
 
     SNA Server: Microsoft SNA Server is a robust, highly fault-tolerant, and
easy-to-maintain gateway product that connects PC local area networks (LANs)
with IBM host systems using SNA protocols.
 
     Systems Management Server: Microsoft Systems Management Server is a
software tool that helps information technology departments centrally manage
distributed-computing environments. With Systems Management Server, system
administrators can distribute and install software to PCs throughout an
enterprise, meter software licenses, conduct remote diagnostics, and perform a
detailed inventory of hardware and software resources.
 
     Mail Server: Microsoft Mail Server for PC networks is a system for
distributing messages and information. It provides administrative utilities for
managing message files, addresses, and mail system
 
                                        2
<PAGE>   5
 
capabilities. Microsoft Mail Server supports users of popular desktop platforms,
including Windows 95, Windows 3.x, MS-DOS, Macintosh, and OS/2.
 
     Mail: Microsoft Mail for PC networks includes client-access software for
Windows 95, Windows 3.x, MS-DOS, Macintosh, and OS/2 platforms. In addition,
this workgroup application offers large corporate users support for multiple
network environments. A companion product, Microsoft Mail for AppleTalk
networks, is used by companies with Macintosh servers. Microsoft Mail Remote for
Windows offers software for remote clients used by travelers or those working at
home to stay in touch with the office mail system.
 
     Schedule+: Microsoft Schedule+ is a calendar and scheduling program that
helps individuals and groups manage their time and resources. The program can
search other workgroup members' schedules to determine meeting availability
times, provide invitees the means to accept, decline, or tentatively accept
invitations to meetings, and automatically notify attendees if a meeting is
canceled or rescheduled.
 
     DEVELOPER PRODUCTS
 
     The Developer Division provides software development tools, database
products, and technical information to Windows developers worldwide. These
products and services help independent software developers, corporate
developers, solutions developers, and hobbyists create a wide variety of
applications, primarily for Windows 95, Windows 3.x, and Windows NT.
 
     Database Products: Database products control the maintenance and
utilization of structured data organized into a set of records or files. The
Company offers database products which span the needs of a wide variety of
users, from individuals to large corporations. These products include Microsoft
Access, Microsoft FoxPro(R), Microsoft SQL Server, and a variety of database
connectivity technologies. Microsoft Access is a relational database management
application, also offered in conjunction with Microsoft Office, which provides
access to structured business data. Microsoft FoxPro is a desktop database
development tool which is compatible with the industry standard xBase
development language. FoxPro supports xBase applications on MS-DOS, Windows 3.x,
Windows 95, Windows NT, Macintosh, and UNIX. The Open Database Connectivity
(ODBC) product provides access and connectivity to read and write to various
databases from other computer industry vendors from within Microsoft Windows
applications.
 
     Software Development Tools and Computer Languages: Software development
tools and computer languages allow software developers to write programs in a
particular computer language and translate programs into a binary
machine-readable set of commands that activate and instruct the hardware. The
Company develops and markets a number of software development environments,
language compilers, and software testing tools. Microsoft Visual C++(TM) is the
Company's development system for 16- and 32-bit application development on
Windows 3.x, Windows 95, and Windows NT. The Microsoft Visual Basic(TM)
programming system for Windows 95, Windows 3.x, and Windows NT operating systems
provides easy access to a wide variety of data sources by integrating the
Microsoft Access database engine and the ability to leverage investments in
commercial applications through OLE 2.0. Additionally, the Company offers
professional, highly-integrated development environments in the FORTRAN language
for MS-DOS, Windows 3.x, and Windows NT.
 
     Developer Information Products: The Company provides third party software
developers with a wide range of technical and support information that assists
them in developing software products intended to run on Windows 3.x, Windows 95,
and Windows NT. Developers subscribe to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN)
information service and receive periodic updates via CD-ROMs, magazines, and
several on-line information services.
 
     CONSUMER SYSTEMS
 
     The Consumer Systems Division is developing advanced system software. Core
technologies under development include broadband networking and multimedia
operating system architecture, advanced video and graphics, and new authoring
system technologies for interactive television. The group is also responsible
 
                                        3
<PAGE>   6
 
for the development and marketing activities of the Company's SoftImage
products, which include authoring and editing systems for film and video.
 
     DESKTOP APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE
 
     The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which
provides the PC with instructions for the performance of end user tasks. The
Company's desktop applications software is designed for use by a broad class of
end users, regardless of business, industry, or market segment. Primary examples
of desktop applications software are word processing, spreadsheet, and
presentation graphics programs. The Company's desktop applications programs are
developed principally for Windows 95, Windows 3.x, and Macintosh operating
systems.
 
     Microsoft Office: Microsoft Office(R) is a suite of software programs
featuring seamless integration of the most commonly used desktop applications.
Microsoft Office is based upon a document-centric concept, with common commands
and extensive use of object linking and embedding (OLE) cross-application
capabilities. Microsoft Office is available in two editions, Standard and
Professional. The Standard Edition includes Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, and
the Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics program. The Microsoft Office
for Windows 95 version also includes Schedule+, while earlier versions of the
Standard Edition included a client-access license for Microsoft Mail. The
Standard Edition is available for Windows 95, Windows 3.x, and Macintosh
operating systems. The Microsoft Office Professional Edition for Windows adds
the Microsoft Access(R) database.
 
     Microsoft Word: The Company's principal word processing program is
Microsoft Word. Versions of Microsoft Word for Windows 95 and for Windows 3.x
provide all the features that users of word processing products expect in the
Windows graphical environment, plus the ability to handle graphics, tables,
spreadsheet data, charts, and images imported from other Windows-based software
programs. The Company also has Windows NT and Macintosh versions of Microsoft
Word.
 
     Microsoft Excel: The Company's spreadsheet program is Microsoft Excel,
which is available for Windows 95, Windows 3.x, Windows NT, and Macintosh
operating systems. It is an integrated spreadsheet with pivot table, database,
and business graphics capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and
embedding of objects that permits users to view and edit graphics or charts from
other Windows-based programs from the worksheet in which the object is stored.
Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities can be linked to its spreadsheets to allow
simultaneous changes to charts as changes are made to the spreadsheets.
 
     Microsoft PowerPoint: Microsoft PowerPoint is a presentation graphics
program for producing slides, overheads, transparencies, and prints. The Company
markets versions of PowerPoint for Windows 95, Windows 3.x, and the Macintosh.
 
     Microsoft Project: Microsoft Project is a critical path project scheduling
and resource allocation program that runs on Windows 95, Windows 3.x, and
Macintosh operating systems. The product can perform as a budgeting, monitoring,
and cost estimating tool for large business projects and as a critical path and
schedule planning tool.
 
     ONLINE SERVICES
 
     The MSN Division manages MSN, The Microsoft Network, a new, interactive
online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users to a wide
range of graphically-rich online content, a compelling business model and
platform for independent content providers (ICPs), and rich and powerful
development tools.
 
     The Microsoft Network: Client-access software for MSN is included as a
feature of Windows 95, which was released commercially on August 24, 1995. The
online service provides access to the Internet, electronic mail, bulletin
boards, and myriad additional services offered by Microsoft and by independent
content providers. The Microsoft Internet Explorer, an Internet browser, takes
advantage of various technical advances in Windows 95 and includes real-time
audio capabilities. Content and service providers aligned with MSN
 
                                        4
<PAGE>   7
 
have flexibility in creating products and pricing their services, such as
subscriptions, online transactions, and ticket events. Services may be supported
by advertising and commerce.
 
     MSN is owned by The Microsoft Network, LLC (formerly the Microsoft Online
Services Partnership). Microsoft owns 80% of the entity and a wholly owned
subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) owns the remaining 20%.
 
     CONSUMER PRODUCTS
 
     The Microsoft Consumer Division develops and markets useful, enjoyable, and
fundamental software and services for small businesses, schools, and homes. The
division is developing and managing a synergistic product line focusing on the
following categories of consumer usage: Information, Productivity, Kids,
Personal Finance, Entertainment, and PC Input Devices. Many of the titles are
available on CD-ROM.
 
     Information: Reference titles include Microsoft Encarta(TM) and Microsoft
Bookshelf(R), which are both available for Windows 3.x and Macintosh operating
systems. The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends text in articles
with a wealth of innovative, interactive information presented through
animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf is a
multimedia reference library that integrates seven well-respected and
authoritative works on one compact disc, including a dictionary, world atlas,
world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books of quotations.
 
     Personal interest titles include Microsoft Cinemania(TM), an interactive
guide to the movies with entries for 19,000 films, Microsoft Dinosaurs, and many
musical titles.
 
     Geography and travel products include Automap Road Atlas, a comprehensive
route-planning program with detailed maps and road information for routes in
North America.
 
     Productivity: The Company's leading consumer productivity products are
Microsoft Works and Microsoft Publisher. The Company markets versions of
Microsoft Works that run on Windows 95, Windows 3.x, MS-DOS, and Macintosh
operating systems. Microsoft Works is an integrated software program that
contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that
allows the easy exchange of information from one tool to another. Microsoft
Publisher is an easy-to-use, entry-level desktop publishing tool for Windows 95
and Windows 3.x operating systems. Publisher features an interactive tool that
automates the design process of 12 custom publications, including newsletters,
calendars, greeting cards, and invitations.
 
     Kids: Titles for children include Microsoft Creative Writer and Microsoft
Fine Artist. Creative Writer is a full-featured creative writing and publishing
program; Fine Artist is a comprehensive art program. Both products take
advantage of the computer's ability to integrate text, high-quality graphics,
sound, and animation to produce an enriching creative experience for children.
The Company also has a series of products based on the popular children's books
and television series, The Magic School Bus.
 
     Personal Finance: Microsoft Money is a financial organization product that
allows users to computerize their household finances. Microsoft Money is
available for systems running Windows 95 and became available August 24, 1995.
It is visually appealing, easy to use, and focuses on the financial tasks that
people do most often. Microsoft Money provides enhanced online home-banking
services with 17 different banks in the U.S. Users who are customers of
participating banks will be able to pay bills online, access up-to-date
statements and balances, transfer funds, and send email messages and inquiries
to their banks.
 
     Entertainment: The Company also has a line of entertainment products.
Microsoft Flight Simulator, which was developed by Bruce Artwick Organization
Ltd., is a popular airplane-flying game available for MS-DOS and Macintosh
operating systems. Microsoft Golf, licensed from Access Software, Inc., is a
realistic simulation of the sport of golf for Windows 95 and Windows 3.x
operating systems.
 
     PC Input Devices: The Company's major input device is the Microsoft Mouse,
a hand-held pointing device that facilitates use of a PC. It can be used with
MS-DOS, Windows 95, and Windows 3.x operating systems and works with many
applications products from Microsoft and other companies. The Microsoft
BallPoint(R) Mouse is designed especially for use with laptop and notebook
computers. The BallPoint Mouse is shipped with a universal clamp that fits on
the keyboards of most laptop computers and a positioner that allows
 
                                        5
<PAGE>   8
 
the user to adjust the angle of the mouse to the keyboard. The Company also
designed and markets the Microsoft Natural Keyboard(TM), an
ergonomically-designed keyboard.
 
     MICROSOFT PRESS
 
     Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and
other software developers and about current developments in the industry. Books
published by Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted by
independent authors who submit their manuscripts to the Company for publication
and who receive royalties based on net revenues generated by the book.
 
     Microsoft Press contracts with an independent commercial printer for the
manufacturing of its books. Publisher's Resources, Inc. acts as the Company's
main fulfillment house in the United States, maintaining the majority of the
inventory of Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed by independent sales
representatives and by Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally,
Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the
worldwide distribution of its books. Microsoft Press has granted a publisher in
England the right to distribute English language versions of its books in all
countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and
certain Asian countries. In most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher
with a book's manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the
printing, marketing, and distribution of the translated version.
 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
     The PC software industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological
change, which requires a continuous and high level of expenditures for enhancing
existing products and developing new products. The Company is committed to
continued high expenditures for research and product development.
 
     Most of the Company's software products are developed internally. The
Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and
oversees third party development for certain products. Product documentation is
also created internally. Internal development enables Microsoft to maintain
closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom to
designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they
should be implemented. The Company has created a substantial body of proprietary
development tools and has evolved a development methodology for creating and
enhancing its products. These tools and methodology are also designed to
simplify a product's portability among different operating systems or computers.
 
     The Company believes that a crucial factor in the success of a new product
is getting it to market quickly to respond to new user needs or advances in
hardware design, without compromising product quality. The Company strives to
become as informed as possible at the earliest possible time about changing
usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design.
 
     During fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995, the Company spent $470 million,
$610 million, and $860 million, respectively, on product research and
development activities. Those amounts represented 12.5%, 13.1%, and 14.5%,
respectively, of net revenues in each of those years.
 
LOCALIZATION
 
     In order to best serve the needs of users in foreign countries, Microsoft
"localizes" many of its products to reflect local languages and conventions. In
France, for example, all user messages and documentation are in French and all
monetary references are in French francs, and in the United Kingdom, monetary
references are in British pounds and user messages and documentation reflect
certain British conventions. Various Microsoft products have been localized into
more than 30 languages.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     The Company has manufacturing facilities located in the United States,
Puerto Rico, and Ireland. The Company's manufacturing operations involve disk
replication, assembly of purchased parts, and final packaging. Quality control
tests are performed on purchased parts, finished disks, and other products. The
 
                                        6
<PAGE>   9
 
chief materials and components used in Microsoft products include disks or
CD-ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company is often able to
acquire component parts and materials on a volume discount basis. The Company
has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components.
 
     The Company contracts a substantial portion of its manufacturing activity
to third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various software products,
documentation, and hardware such as mouse pointing devices and keyboards. There
are other custom manufacturers in the event that outsourced manufacturing
becomes unavailable from current sources.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing people with three customer types:
end users, organizations, and OEMs. The Company's sales and marketing staff
seeks to build long-term relationships with these customers of Microsoft
products. Microsoft has four major channels of distribution which deliver
product to end users: finished goods in the U.S. and Canada, Europe, and Other
International; and OEM.
 
     The end user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
end users who make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use at work or
home. All sales and marketing activities aimed at end user customers are
performed by this unit, including developing and administering distributor and
reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing
and promotions; end user marketing programs; support policies; and seminars,
events, and sales training for resellers. The key products licensed and sold are
the Company's personal operating systems and consumer and desktop applications.
 
     The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that
target groups of users in organizations of all sizes. The unit works with
Solutions Providers, the Microsoft Consulting Services division, and directly
with organizations to create enterprise-wide solutions to business computing
problems. The unit's sales and marketing activities include providing technical
training of Solutions Providers and channel resellers; developing support
policies; and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for
resellers and Solutions Providers. Key products are the Company's business
systems, developer software, and software sold via volume licensing programs. In
the U.S., the organization customer unit is further segregated into an
enterprise customer unit, which services only large organization customers, and
a more specialized unit which services small and medium customers.
 
     The OEM customer unit includes the sales force which works with original
equipment manufacturers that include Microsoft software on their PCs.
 
     FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS
 
     Distributors and Resellers: The Company markets its products in the
finished goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors
and resellers. Distributors include Computer 2000, Ingram Micro, and Merisel.
Resellers include Egghead Software, Softbank, Software Spectrum, and Stream
International (formerly Corporate Software). Microsoft has a network of field
sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from
distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support.
 
     Large Accounts: The Company has a program designed to make it easier for
large organizations to acquire and maintain Microsoft products. The program,
Microsoft Select, offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and
maintenance options specially designed to meet the needs of large multinational
organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential
end users in large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally
coordinated with the Microsoft network of large account resellers.
 
     Solutions Providers: Microsoft's Solutions Providers program is a
comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide
network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical
support for business computing solutions. The program supports value-added
resellers (VARs), system integrators, consultants, and developers, as well as
technical support and training organizations. Under this business partnership
strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development
services, early access to Microsoft products, and customer support tools
including priority telephone support, education,
 
                                        7
<PAGE>   10
 
and business development support. To ensure high-quality technical services for
the Company's products, Microsoft Solutions Providers are required to have
Microsoft-certified professionals on staff.
 
     Consulting Services: The Company's Consulting Services Division assists
customers in using the Company's computer operating systems, applications, and
communications products. The group works with Solutions Providers and helps
create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts.
 
     Direct Marketing: Microsoft promotes some of its products through direct
marketing techniques directed toward existing and potential users of the
Company's products. Promotional materials are typically delivered through the
mail, utilizing lists of targeted individuals. Fulfillment of product to the end
user is accomplished by either direct shipment or through resellers.
 
     International Sales Sites: The Company has established marketing, support,
and/or distribution subsidiaries in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark,
Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, the People's Republic of China, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom, and Venezuela.
 
     The Company's international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are
subject to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as
governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. Microsoft hedges a portion of its foreign exchange risk.
 
     OEM CHANNEL
 
     The Company's operating systems are licensed primarily to OEMs under
agreements that grant the OEMs the right to distribute copies of Microsoft's
products with their computers. The Company also markets certain language and
applications programs to OEMs under similar arrangements. In addition, the
Company markets the Microsoft Mouse, BallPoint Mouse, and Natural Keyboard to
OEMs for distribution to buyers of their computers. In almost all cases, the
products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM
agreements covering one or more of its products with virtually all of the major
microcomputer OEMs, including AST Research, Acer, Digital Equipment Corporation,
Dell, Compaq, Gateway 2000, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC, Olivetti, Packard Bell,
and Toshiba.
 
     ADVERTISING
 
     The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing
firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing
materials are targeted to various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad
consumer media (television, radio, and business publications) and trade
publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs
are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. Microsoft also invests
heavily in direct marketing and customer satisfaction areas. In 1996, the
Company plans to spend more than $150 million on a broad campaign emphasizing
the Microsoft brand identity.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
     As described above, Microsoft has three customer types: end users,
organizations, and OEMs. Most end users of Microsoft products are individuals in
businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and at home. These
end users obtain Microsoft products primarily through distributors, resellers,
and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their hardware. Notes to
Financial Statements describe customers that represent more than 10% of the
Company's revenues. The Company's practice is to ship its products promptly upon
receipt of purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog is not
significant.
 
                                        8
<PAGE>   11
 
PRODUCT SUPPORT SERVICES
 
     The Company's Product Support Services group, with locations in the U.S.
and in various Microsoft subsidiaries, provides product support coverage options
to meet the needs of users of Microsoft products. The Company hires individuals
with proven product expertise and provides them with productivity tools,
continuous product education and training, and consistent processes to deliver
quality support for Microsoft products. Certain telephone support is also
supplied by qualified third-party support organizations. Coverage options range
from standard no-charge toll telephone support to fee-based offerings providing
unlimited 800 number telephone and electronic technical support across all
Microsoft products 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
 
     Users have access to Microsoft KnowledgeBase, a library of thousands of
technical articles that is updated regularly with useful information regarding
Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access to KnowledgeBase via MSN, America
Online, CompuServe(R), GEnie(TM), Prodigy, and the Internet. Additionally, the
Company offers two information subscription services: Microsoft TechNet and
Microsoft Developer Network.
 
     As a supplement or alternative to direct support, the Company enhances the
third party support channel by providing Microsoft Solutions Providers with
education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solutions Providers include
Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and
certification on Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which
provide a wide spectrum of multinational support, multivendor support, and
integration services.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The microcomputer software business is intensely competitive and subject to
extremely rapid technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition in
all areas of its business activity, including competition from many companies
whose revenues and resources are much larger than Microsoft's.
 
     Operating systems.  Microsoft's operating systems products face substantial
competition from a number of sources. Major competitors such as IBM, Apple
Computer, Digital Equipment Corporation, and others, which are vertically
integrated in both software development and hardware manufacture, have developed
operating systems that they preinstall on computers of their own manufacture.
Many of these operating system software products are also licensed to third
party OEMs for preinstallation on their machines. Microsoft's operating systems
products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from a wide range of
companies including IBM, AT&T, Hewlett Packard, Sun Microsystems, Novell, The
Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants of UNIX run on a wide variety of
computer platforms and are gaining increasing acceptance as desktop operating
systems. As microcomputer technology increasingly moves toward connectivity and
communications, Microsoft's operating systems products will face increased
competition from network server operating systems, such as Novell NetWare, and
"middleware" products such as Lotus Notes from IBM. Microsoft's operating
systems products also face constant competition from software pirates who
unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft's copyrighted software products.
 
     Business systems. The Company is a fairly recent entrant into
enterprise-wide computing solutions. As such, competitors enjoy larger market
shares and installed bases. Software developers that provide competing server
applications include Oracle, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several
software vendors who offer connectivity servers. Additionally, Lotus Development
(now owned by IBM) has a large installed base of Lotus Notes and cc:Mail, which
compete with the Company's workgroup products.
 
     Desktop applications. The Company's competitors include many software
application vendors, such as Lotus, Oracle, Claris, and Novell. Some of the
competitors in this arena do not offer products in every major desktop
application category (e.g., spreadsheet, word processors, databases, etc.) and
as a result may be able to more effectively focus their efforts on enhancing
particular product offerings.
 
     Online services. An enormous range of companies, including media
conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware
manufacturers, and software developers, are competing to make online services
widely available to computer users. Microsoft's new online services network,
MSN, faces
 
                                        9
<PAGE>   12
 
formidable competition from both established online networks, such as CompuServe
(owned by H&R Block), Prodigy (owned by IBM and Sears), America Online, and
others, and impending entrants, such as a number of new online networks that
will be offered by AT&T. MSN and other online networks also face competition
from online services that are offered to users directly via the Internet,
including, in particular, the World Wide Web portion of the Internet.
Additionally, Netscape, Adobe, Sun Microsystems, and many other companies offer
software for Internet servers and for user navigation of the Internet.
 
     Developer. The Company's developer products compete against offerings from
Sybase, Borland, and many other companies.
 
     Consumer. Microsoft's Consumer division faces many smaller but focused
competitors, particularly in the areas of entertainment and education. Examples
include Intuit, Broderbund, Electronic Arts, Softkey, The Learning Company,
Davidson Associates, Voyager, Comptons, Edmark, Sierra On-Line, and Dorling
Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such as Walt Disney and
Lucas Arts. Additionally, as platforms become more powerful, PC-based games will
compete head-to-head with games created for proprietary systems such as Nintendo
and Sega. The Consumer Division's input devices face substantial competition
from computer manufactures, since computers are typically sold with a keyboard
and mouse, and other manufacturers of these devices.
 
     The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in marketing PC
software are the product's reputation, features and functions, ease of use,
reliability, price relative to performance, timeliness of delivery, and
availability and quality of support services. There is no assurance that the
Company's competitive position will not be adversely affected by one or more of
these factors in the future, particularly in view of the fast pace of
technological change in the software industry.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of June 30, 1995, the Company employed 17,801 people, 12,193
domestically and 5,608 internationally. Of the total, 5,397 were in product
research and development, 9,166 in sales, marketing, and support, 1,639 in
manufacturing and distribution, and 1,599 in finance and administration.
Microsoft's success is highly dependent on its ability to attract and retain
qualified employees. Competition for employees is intense in the software
industry. To date, the Company believes it has been successful in its efforts to
recruit qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue to
be as successful in the future. None of the Company's employees are subject to
collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes that relations with its
employees are excellent.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's corporate offices consist of approximately 2.2 million square
feet of office building space located in Redmond, Washington. There are two
sites that total approximately 300 acres of land. The Company is constructing a
225,000 square foot office building, which is expected to be completed in the
spring of 1996. Additionally, construction is continuing on another series of
office buildings with approximately 685,000 square feet of space. Occupancy on
this site will be phased starting in the fall of 1995 and completed by spring of
1996. The Company owns all of its corporate campus.
 
     The Company's domestic manufacturing and distribution operation consists of
a 265,000 square foot facility situated on 23 acres in nearby Snohomish County,
Washington, and a 45,000 square foot disk duplication facility in Humacao,
Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation in April 1990, is
leased under a 10-year lease, with an option to renew for an additional 10
years. The Company's European manufacturing operation consists of a 155,000
square foot facility situated on 12 acres in Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site
also includes a 25,000 square foot office building for international
localization. An additional 80,000 of square feet of office space for
localization is being constructed in Ireland.
 
     The Company owns a 65,000 square foot office building on seven acres of
land plus another 33 acres near London, England. In Les Ulis, France, the
Company owns a 110,000 square foot office building on four acres of land.
 
                                       10
<PAGE>   13
 
     In addition, the Company leases office space in numerous locations in the
United States and many other countries.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     See Notes to Financial Statements -- Contingencies.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1995.
 
ITEM E.O. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The executive officers of Microsoft as of September 8, 1995 were as
follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    NAME                       AGE     POSITION WITH THE COMPANY
    ----                       ---     -------------------------
    <S>                        <C>     <C>
    William H. Gates           39      Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer
    Steven A. Ballmer          39      Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Support
    Robert J. Herbold          53      Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer
    Frank M. (Pete) Higgins    37      Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group
    Paul A. Maritz             40      Group Vice President, Platforms Group
    Nathan P. Myhrvold         36      Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group
    James E. Allchin           43      Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division
    Roger J. Heinen, Jr.       44      Senior Vice President, Developer Division
    Joachim Kempin             53      Senior Vice President, Worldwide OEM Sales
    Craig J. Mundie            46      Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division
    William H. Neukom          53      Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs;
                                       Secretary
    Jeffrey S. Raikes          37      Senior Vice President, North America
    Brad A. Silverberg         41      Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division
    Patricia Q. Stonesifer     39      Senior Vice President, Consumer Division
    Bernard P. Vergnes         50      Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft
                                       Europe
    Michael W. Brown           49      Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer
</TABLE>
 
     Mr. Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 and has been its Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Board since the original partnership was
incorporated in 1981.
 
     Mr. Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Support
in February 1992. He had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since
1989. From 1984 until 1989, Mr. Ballmer served as Vice President, Systems
Software. He joined Microsoft in 1980.
 
     Mr. Herbold joined Microsoft as Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer in November 1994. Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble
Company since 1968, with experience in information services, advertising and
market research. Most recently, he was P&G's Senior Vice President, Information
Services and Advertising.
 
     Mr. Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group
in May 1995. He was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division
in March 1993. He had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since
1992 and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since 1991. Mr.
Higgins joined Microsoft in 1983.
 
     Mr. Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group in May 1995. He
was named Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy in November
1994 and had been Senior Vice President, Systems
 
                                       11
<PAGE>   14
 
Division since February 1992. He had been Vice President, Advanced Operating
Systems since 1989. Mr. Maritz joined Microsoft in 1986.
 
     Mr. Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group
in May 1995. He was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology in July
1993. He had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development
since 1989. Mr. Myhrvold joined Microsoft in 1986.
 
     Mr. Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division in
November 1994. He had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July
1991. Prior to joining Microsoft in 1991, Mr. Allchin spent seven years at
Banyan Systems, Inc., where he held numerous positions, most recently Senior
Vice President and Chief Technology Officer.
 
     Mr. Heinen joined Microsoft as Senior Vice President, Developer Division in
January 1993. He had been Senior Vice President and General Manager of the
Macintosh Software Division at Apple Computer, Inc. from 1990 to 1993. Prior to
1990, Heinen was a corporate consulting engineer for software at Digital
Equipment Corporation.
 
     Mr. Kempin was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide OEM Sales in August
1993. He had been Vice President, OEM Sales since 1987. Mr. Kempin had served as
General Manager of Microsoft's German subsidiary since its inception in 1983.
 
     Mr. Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division in
May 1995. He had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July
1993. He joined Microsoft as General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group
in December 1992. Previously, Mr. Mundie had been CEO of Alliant Computer
Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy on May 25, 1992 and was
liquidated.
 
     Mr. Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs in
February 1994. He joined Microsoft in 1985 as Vice President. Mr. Neukom
formerly was a member of the Seattle law firm of Shidler McBroom Gates & Lucas
(now Preston Gates & Ellis), Microsoft's primary outside law firm.
 
     Mr. Raikes was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America in
January 1992. He had been Vice President, Office Systems since 1990. Mr. Raikes
came to Microsoft in 1981.
 
     Mr. Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division
in November 1994. He joined Microsoft in August 1990 as Vice President, Personal
Operating Systems Division. From 1987 until joining Microsoft, Mr. Silverberg
served as Vice President, Engineering for Borland International, Inc.
 
     Ms. Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division in
November 1994, after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June
1993. She had been Vice President, Support since 1992 and General Manager of
Product Support Services since 1991. Previously, she was General Manager of
Microsoft Canada and before that, General Manager for Microsoft Press. Prior to
joining Microsoft in 1988, Ms. Stonesifer was with Que Corporation, a publisher
of books for computer users.
 
     Mr. Vergnes is a Senior Vice President of Microsoft and was named
President, Microsoft Europe in April 1992. He had been Vice President, Europe
since 1989. Mr. Vergnes served as General Manager of Microsoft's French
subsidiary since its inception in 1983.
 
     Mr. Brown was named Chief Financial Officer in August 1994 and Vice
President, Finance in April 1993. He had been Treasurer since February 1990,
after joining Microsoft in January 1990. Previously, Mr. Brown was a partner in
the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, Microsoft's independent auditors.
 
                                       12
<PAGE>   15
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     The Company's common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol MSFT. On September 8, 1995, there were 35,643 holders of record of the
Company's common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common
stock.
 
                QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND STOCK PRICE INFORMATION
                      (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            QUARTER ENDED
                                      ---------------------------------------------------------
                                      SEPTEMBER 30      DECEMBER 31      MARCH 31      JUNE 30       YEAR
                                      -------------     ------------     ---------     --------     ------
<S>                                      <C>               <C>            <C>           <C>         <C>
1993
Net revenues........................     $   818           $  938         $   958       $1,039      $3,753
Operating income....................         289              326             338          373       1,326
Net income..........................         209              236             243          265         953
Earnings per share..................        0.35             0.39            0.40         0.43        1.57
Common stock price per share:
  High..............................      41               47 1/2          47 1/8       49          49
  Low...............................      32 3/4           37 7/8          38 3/8       39 7/8      32 3/4
1994
Net revenues........................     $   983           $1,129         $ 1,244       $1,293      $4,649
Operating income....................         343              415             480          488       1,726
Net income..........................         239              289             256          362       1,146
Earnings per share..................        0.39             0.48            0.42         0.59        1.88
Common stock price per share:
  High..............................      44 1/4           43 1/4          44 5/8       54 5/8      54 5/8
  Low...............................      35 1/8           38              39           41          35 1/8
1995
Net revenues........................     $ 1,247           $1,482         $ 1,587       $1,621      $5,937
Operating income....................         437              520             549          532       2,038
Net income..........................         316              373             396          368       1,453
Earnings per share..................        0.51             0.60            0.63         0.58        2.32
Common stock price per share:
  High..............................      59 1/4           65 1/8          74 1/8       92 3/8      92 3/8
  Low...............................      46 7/8           53 7/8          58 1/4       68 3/4      46 7/8
</TABLE>
 
                                       13
<PAGE>   16
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                --------------------------------------------------
                                                 1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
                                                ------     ------     ------     ------     ------
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Net revenues..................................  $1,843     $2,759     $3,753     $4,649     $5,937
Net income....................................     463        708        953      1,146      1,453
Earnings per share............................    0.82       1.20       1.57       1.88       2.32
Return on net revenues........................    25.1%      25.7%      25.4%      24.7%      24.5%
Cash and short-term investments...............  $  686     $1,345     $2,290     $3,614     $4,750
Total assets..................................   1,644      2,640      3,805      5,363      7,210
Stockholders' equity..........................   1,351      2,193      3,242      4,450      5,333
</TABLE>
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR 1993, 1994, AND 1995
 
     Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports a wide
range of software products, including operating system platforms for personal
computers (PCs), workstations, and servers; business and consumer applications
for productivity, reference, education, and entertainment; and development
tools. Microsoft also sells personal computer books and input devices, and is
engaged in the research and development of online and advanced technology
software products.
 
     NET REVENUES
 
     Microsoft's net revenues grew 24% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994
and 28% in fiscal year 1995. Software license volume (as opposed to price)
increases have been the principal factor in Microsoft revenue growth. The
average selling price per license has decreased, primarily because of general
shifts in the sales mix from retail packaged products to licensing programs,
from new products to product upgrades, and from stand-alone desktop applications
to integrated product suites. Average revenue per license from original
equipment manufacturer (OEM) licenses and corporate license programs, such as
Microsoft Select, is lower than average revenue per license from retail
versions. Likewise, product upgrades have lower prices than new products. Also,
prices of integrated suites, e.g., Microsoft Office, are less than the sum of
the prices for the individual programs included in these products when such
programs are licensed separately.
 
     Product groups. Microsoft has a platforms product group and an applications
and content product group.
 
     Platforms product group revenues were $1.52 billion, $1.83 billion, and
$2.36 billion in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
     Principal personal systems products have been the MS-DOS and Microsoft
Windows operating systems. MS-DOS is preinstalled on PCs by most OEMs, and
revenues from such licenses increased steadily in both 1994 and 1995. Revenues
from retail upgrade versions of MS-DOS decreased in both 1994 and 1995 after a
strong increase in 1993 when the MS-DOS 6 Upgrade was released. There were no
major upgrades of MS-DOS in 1994 or 1995. The Microsoft Windows operating system
was an increasingly strong contributor to revenues as the number of new PCs
preinstalled with Windows increased rapidly during the three-year period.
Windows units licensed to new users were 15 million, 30 million, and 40 million
in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
     Business systems products offer an enterprise-wide distributed
client/server environment based on the Microsoft Windows NT operating system and
the server applications in the Microsoft BackOffice family of products. Revenues
from these products increased strongly in 1994 and 1995.
 
                                       14
<PAGE>   17
 
     Revenues from developer products increased steadily in all three years, as
more independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions
developers licensed tools to develop software for Windows and Windows NT.
 
     Applications and content product group revenues were $2.24 billion, $2.82
billion, and $3.58 billion in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
     Increases in desktop applications revenues were led by strong sales of
Microsoft Office. The Microsoft Office Standard product includes the Microsoft
Excel spreadsheet, the Microsoft Word word processor, the Microsoft PowerPoint
presentation graphics program, and a Microsoft Mail client-access license, while
the Microsoft Office Professional version also includes the Microsoft Access
database management system. Sales of stand-alone versions of Microsoft Excel and
Microsoft Word decreased in 1994 and 1995 as the sales mix continued to shift to
integrated product suites.
 
     Microsoft Home, a broad range of consumer products, also showed continued
growth. The Microsoft Home brand includes CD-ROM multimedia reference titles and
software products for home and small office productivity, children's creativity,
and entertainment. Microsoft also markets the Microsoft Mouse and Microsoft
Natural Keyboard. Mouse sales were flat during the three-year period, while the
initial introduction of the keyboard increased revenues in 1995.
 
     Sales channels. Microsoft distributes its products primarily through OEM
licenses, corporate licenses, and retail packaged products. OEM channel revenues
are license fees from original equipment manufacturers. Microsoft has three
major geographic sales and marketing organizations: U.S. and Canada, Europe, and
elsewhere in the world (Other International). Sales of corporate licenses and
packaged products in these channels are primarily to distributors and resellers.
 
     OEM channel revenues were $731 million in 1993, $1.18 billion in 1994, and
$1.65 billion in 1995. The primary source of OEM revenues is the licensing of
operating systems, particularly MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows. As such, OEM
channel revenues are highly dependent on PC shipment volume.
 
     U.S. and Canada channel revenues were $1.37 billion, $1.58 billion, and
$1.88 billion in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
     Revenues in Europe were $1.26 billion, $1.36 billion, and $1.49 billion in
1993, 1994, and 1995. Growth rates have been lower in Europe than in other
geographic areas due to general economic slowness, higher existing market
shares, and a more dramatic shift to corporate licensing programs.
 
     Other International channel revenues were $392 million in 1993, $532
million in 1994, and $924 million in 1995. Growth rates continue to be strong
due to customer acceptance of newly localized products, particularly in Japan,
and early entrance into emerging markets.
 
     Microsoft's operating results are affected by foreign exchange rates.
Approximately 44%, 40%, and 37% of Microsoft's revenues were collected in
foreign currencies during 1993, 1994, and 1995. Since much of Microsoft's
international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred in
local currencies, the impact of exchange rates on net income is less than on
revenues.
 
     OPERATING EXPENSES
 
     Cost of revenues. As a percentage of revenues, cost of revenues was 16.9%
in 1993, 16.4% in 1994, and 14.8% in 1995. The percentage decreased due to a
greater proportion of licenses to OEMs and corporations, lower disk prices from
vendors, and a higher proportion of CD-ROM versions. These factors were offset
somewhat by increased sales of lower-margin products such as integrated suites
and upgrades.
 
     Research and development. Microsoft made substantial investments in R&D in
1994, and the rate of growth accelerated in 1995. Expense increases resulted
primarily from development staff headcount growth and higher levels of
third-party development costs in many areas, including development efforts for
Windows 95 and The Microsoft Network. R&D costs also increased for business
systems, consumer systems, desktop applications, and consumer products.
 
                                       15
<PAGE>   18
 
     Sales and marketing. The increase in the absolute dollar amount of sales
and marketing expense in 1995 was due primarily to increased product-specific
marketing programs, a Microsoft brand advertising campaign, and continued
expansion of Product Support Services. In 1994, sales and marketing expenses
increased at a slower rate than revenues due to a concerted performance
orientation at all sales sites.
 
     General and administrative. Increases in general and administrative
expenses in 1994 and 1995 were primarily attributable to higher legal costs and
growth in the computer systems and the number of people necessary to support
overall increases in the scope of Microsoft's operations.
 
     NONOPERATING ITEMS
 
     Interest income, which was $83 million, $104 million, and $193 million in
1993, 1994, and 1995, increased primarily as a result of a larger investment
portfolio generated by cash from operations.
 
     In the fourth quarter of 1995, Microsoft paid a $46 million breakup fee to
Intuit Inc. in connection with the termination of a planned merger.
 
     In the third quarter of 1994, Microsoft recorded a $120 million charge to
reflect the estimated impact of a jury verdict in the Stac Electronics patent
litigation and related expenses. In June 1994, Microsoft reached an agreement
with Stac to settle the litigation and adjusted its estimate accordingly,
resulting in a credit of $30 million in the fourth quarter and a net pretax
charge of $90 million for 1994.
 
     PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
     The effective tax rate increased from 32.0% in 1993 to 33.5% in 1994 and
33.0% in 1995 primarily because of an increase in the U.S. statutory income tax
rate.
 
     NET INCOME
 
     Net income as a percent of revenues decreased in 1995 due to increased
relative research and development, sales and marketing, and general and
administrative expenses, offset by the lower relative cost of revenues and the
higher relative net nonoperating income. The net income percentage decreased in
1994, primarily due to the patent litigation charge and increased research and
development expenses, offset by the lower relative level of sales and marketing
expenses.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     Microsoft's cash and short-term investments totaled $4.75 billion at June
30, 1995. The portfolio is diversified among security types, industries, and
individual issuers. Microsoft's investments are investment grade and liquid. The
portfolio is invested predominantly in U.S. dollar denominated securities, but
also includes foreign currency positions in anticipation of continued
international expansion. Microsoft's portfolio is invested in short-term
securities to minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment in the
event of immediate cash needs. Microsoft has no material long-term debt.
Microsoft has $70 million of standby multicurrency lines of credit that support
foreign currency hedging and international cash management.
 
     Stockholders' equity at June 30, 1995 exceeded $5.3 billion.
 
     Cash generated from operations has been sufficient historically to fund
Microsoft's investment in research and development activities and facilities
expansion. As Microsoft grows, investments will continue in research and
development in existing and advanced areas of technology. Microsoft's cash will
also be used to acquire technology and to fund ventures and other strategic
opportunities. Additions to property, plant, and equipment are expected to
continue, including facilities and computer systems for research and
development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. For
example, on June 30, 1995, commitments related to the construction of new
buildings approximated $150 million.
 
     The exercise of stock options by employees provides additional cash. These
proceeds have been used in Microsoft's open market stock repurchase program
through which Microsoft provides shares for stock option and stock purchase
plans. This program will continue in 1996.
 
                                       16
<PAGE>   19
 
     During 1995, to enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sold equity
put warrants to independent third parties. These put warrants entitle the
holders to sell shares of Microsoft common stock to Microsoft on certain dates
at specified prices.
 
     Also during 1995, a subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) purchased
a 20% minority interest in the newly formed Microsoft Online Services
Partnership. TCI contributed $125 million of TCI common stock, and Microsoft
contributed the business assets of its online service, The Microsoft Network,
which was in development.
 
     Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with
funds generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating
requirements in 1996. Microsoft's cash and short-term investments are also
managed to be available for strategic investment opportunities or other
potential large-scale cash needs that may arise in pursuit of Microsoft's
long-term strategies.
 
     Microsoft shareholders have also authorized the issuance of up to 100
million shares of preferred stock, which may be used for any proper corporate
purpose.
 
     Microsoft has not paid cash dividends on its common stock.
 
OUTLOOK AND UNCERTAINTIES
 
     Microsoft does not provide forecasts of potential future financial
performance. While management of Microsoft is optimistic about Microsoft's
long-term prospects, the following issues and uncertainties, among others,
should be considered in evaluating its growth outlook.
 
     Rapid technological change. The personal computer software industry is
characterized by rapid technological change and uncertainty as to the impact of
emerging areas such as the Internet and online services, the information
highway, networked collaboration products, and electronic commerce.
 
     Long-term investment cycle. Developing and localizing software is expensive
and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle.
Microsoft's plans for 1996 include significant investments in software research
and development and related product opportunities from which significant
revenues are not anticipated for a number of years. Management expects total
spending for research and development in 1996 to increase over spending in 1995.
 
     Customer acceptance. While Microsoft performs extensive usability and beta
testing of new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates
ultimately dictate the success of development and marketing efforts of products
such as Windows 95, Microsoft Office for Windows 95, or the Microsoft BackOffice
family of products.
 
     Product ship schedules. Delays in the release of new products can cause
operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing and distribution logistics,
independent software vendor (ISV) and OEM relationships, and telephone support
staffing.
 
     Prices. Future prices Microsoft is able to obtain for its products may
decrease from historical levels depending on competitive market or cost factors.
Prices of software in Europe are generally higher than in the U.S. to cover
localization costs and higher costs of distribution. Such price uplifts could
erode in the future.
 
     Integrated suites. The price of integrated suites such as Microsoft Office,
is less than the sum of the prices for the individual programs included in this
product when such programs are licensed separately. Revenues from Microsoft
Office may continue to increase as a percentage of total revenues.
 
     Saturation. Product upgrades, enabling users to upgrade from earlier
versions of Microsoft's products or from competitors' products, have lower
prices and margins than new products. As the desktop applications market becomes
saturated, the sales mix shifts from standard products to upgrade products. This
trend is expected to continue.
 
                                       17
<PAGE>   20
 
     Channel mix. Average revenue per license is lower from OEM licenses than
from retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs of operations
in the OEM channel. An increasingly higher percentage of revenues was achieved
through the OEM channel during 1994 and 1995.
 
     Corporate licenses. Average revenue per unit from corporate license
programs is lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions shipped
through the finished goods channels. Unit sales under corporate licensing
programs may continue to increase.
 
     Cost of revenues. Although cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues
decreased in 1994 and 1995, it varies with channel mix and product mix within
channels. Changes in channel and product mix, including the potential retail
upgrade cycle of Windows 95, may increase cost of revenues as a percentage of
net revenues in 1996.
 
     Sales and marketing and support investments. Microsoft's plans for 1996
include continued investments in its sales and marketing and support groups.
Microsoft brand advertising is also expected to increase.
 
     Foreign exchange. A large percentage of Microsoft's sales and costs of
manufacturing and marketing are transacted in local currencies. As a result,
Microsoft's international results of operations are subject to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations.
 
     Intellectual property rights. Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual
property rights, but unlicensed copying of software represents a loss of
revenues to Microsoft. While this adversely affects U.S. revenues, revenue loss
is even more significant outside of the U.S., particularly in certain countries
where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Throughout the
world, Microsoft actively educates consumers on the benefits of licensing
genuine products and educates lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate
where intellectual property rights are protected. There can be no assurance that
continued efforts will affect revenues positively.
 
     Future growth rates. If a substantial number of users upgrade to Windows
95, revenue growth rates in the initial shipping quarters of 1996 could be at
relatively high levels. Revenue growth rates in the comparable quarters of 1997
may not approach such levels. As discussed above, operating expenses are
expected to increase in 1996. Because of the fixed nature of a significant
portion of such expenses, coupled with the possibility of slower revenue growth,
operating margins in 1997 may decrease from those in 1996.
 
     Litigation. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and
copyrights is increasing in the PC software industry. In addition, there are
government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate
legal risks.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                         <C>
Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1995...............................    19
Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1995...........................    20
Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1995 and 1994.............................................    21
Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1995.................    22
Notes to Financial Statements...........................................................    23
Independent Auditors' Report............................................................    29
Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the three years ended June 30,
  1995..................................................................................    32
</TABLE>
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
 
     None.
 
                                       18
<PAGE>   21
 
                               INCOME STATEMENTS
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                                   ----------------------------
                                                                    1993       1994       1995
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
<S>                                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
Net revenues.....................................................  $3,753     $4,649     $5,937
Operating expenses:
  Cost of revenues...............................................     633        763        877
  Research and development.......................................     470        610        860
  Sales and marketing............................................   1,205      1,384      1,895
  General and administrative.....................................     119        166        267
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
          Total operating expenses...............................   2,427      2,923      3,899
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
Operating income.................................................   1,326      1,726      2,038
Interest income -- net...........................................      82        102        191
Noncontinuing items..............................................      --        (90)       (46)
Other expenses...................................................      (7)       (16)       (16)
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
Income before income taxes.......................................   1,401      1,722      2,167
Provision for income taxes.......................................     448        576        714
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
Net income.......................................................  $  953     $1,146     $1,453
                                                                   ======     ======     ======
Earnings per share...............................................  $ 1.57     $ 1.88     $ 2.32
                                                                   ======     ======     ======
Weighted average shares outstanding..............................     606        610        627
                                                                   ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                       19
<PAGE>   22
 
                             CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                                 ------------------------------
                                                                  1993       1994        1995
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
<S>                                                              <C>        <C>         <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS
  Net income...................................................  $  953     $ 1,146     $ 1,453
  Depreciation and amortization................................     151         237         269
  Current liabilities..........................................     177         360         419
  Accounts receivable..........................................    (121)       (146)        (91)
  Inventories..................................................     (51)         23          15
  Other current assets.........................................     (35)        (27)        (75)
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
          Net cash from operations.............................   1,074       1,593       1,990
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING
  Common stock issued..........................................     229         280         332
  Common stock repurchased.....................................    (250)       (348)       (649)
  Stock option income tax benefits.............................     207         151         179
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
          Net cash from financing..............................     186          83        (138)
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
CASH FLOWS USED FOR INVESTMENTS
  Additions to property, plant, and equipment..................    (236)       (278)       (495)
  Other assets.................................................     (17)        (64)       (230)
  Short-term investments.......................................    (723)       (860)       (651)
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
          Net cash used for investments........................    (976)     (1,202)     (1,376)
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
Net change in cash and equivalents.............................     284         474         476
Effect of exchange rates on cash...............................     (62)        (10)          9
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year........................     791       1,013       1,477
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
Cash and equivalents, end of year..............................   1,013       1,477       1,962
Short-term investments.........................................   1,277       2,137       2,788
                                                                 ------     -------     -------
Cash and short-term investments................................  $2,290     $ 3,614     $ 4,750
                                                                 ======     =======     =======
</TABLE>
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                       20
<PAGE>   23
 
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  JUNE 30
                                                                             -----------------
                                                                              1994       1995
                                                                             ------     ------
<S>                                                                          <C>        <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and short-term investments..........................................  $3,614     $4,750
  Accounts receivable -- net of allowances of $92 and $139.................     475        581
  Inventories..............................................................     102         88
  Other....................................................................     121        201
                                                                             ------     ------
          Total current assets.............................................   4,312      5,620
Property, plant, and equipment -- net......................................     930      1,192
Other assets...............................................................     121        398
                                                                             ------     ------
               Total assets................................................  $5,363     $7,210
                                                                             ======     ======
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable.........................................................  $  324     $  563
  Accrued compensation.....................................................      96        130
  Income taxes payable.....................................................     305        410
  Other....................................................................     188        244
                                                                             ------     ------
          Total current liabilities........................................     913      1,347
                                                                             ------     ------
Minority interest..........................................................      --        125
                                                                             ------     ------
Put warrants...............................................................      --        405
                                                                             ------     ------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
  Common stock and paid-in capital -- shares authorized 2,000;
     issued and outstanding 581 and 588....................................   1,500      2,005
  Retained earnings........................................................   2,950      3,328
                                                                             ------     ------
          Total stockholders' equity.......................................   4,450      5,333
                                                                             ------     ------
               Total liabilities and stockholders' equity..................  $5,363     $7,210
                                                                             ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                       21
<PAGE>   24
 
                        STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY STATEMENTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                                   ----------------------------
                                                                    1993       1994       1995
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
<S>                                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
COMMON STOCK AND PAID-IN CAPITAL
  Balance, beginning of year.....................................  $  657     $1,086     $1,500
  Common stock issued............................................     229        280        332
  Common stock repurchased.......................................      (7)       (17)       (30)
  Proceeds from sale of put warrants.............................      --         --         49
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation.....................      --         --        (25)
  Stock option income tax benefits...............................     207        151        179
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
          Balance, end of year...................................   1,086      1,500      2,005
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
RETAINED EARNINGS
  Balance, beginning of year.....................................   1,536      2,156      2,950
  Common stock repurchased.......................................    (243)      (331)      (668)
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation.....................      --         --       (380)
  Net income.....................................................     953      1,146      1,453
  Translation adjustment.........................................     (90)       (21)       (27)
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
          Balance, end of year...................................   2,156      2,950      3,328
                                                                   ------     ------     ------
               Total stockholders' equity........................  $3,242     $4,450     $5,333
                                                                   ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                       22
<PAGE>   25
 
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of consolidation. The financial statements include the accounts
of Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated.
 
     Foreign currencies. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies
on the books of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the exchange rate on the
balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are
charged or credited to equity. Revenues, costs, and expenses are translated at
average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses on
foreign currency transactions are included in other expenses.
 
     Revenue recognition. Revenue from sales to distributors and resellers is
recognized when related products are shipped. Revenue from corporate license
programs generally is recognized when the product is installed by the user.
Finished goods revenue attributable to significant support (telephone support
and specified and unspecified enhancements) is recognized when such obligations
are fulfilled. Costs related to insignificant obligations, which includes
telephone support for certain products, are accrued.
 
     Revenue from products licensed to original equipment manufacturers is
recognized when the licensed products are shipped by the OEM.
 
     Revenue from software maintenance, service, and support contracts is
recognized ratably over the contract period.
 
     Provisions are recorded for returns and bad debts.
 
     Research and development. Research and development costs are expensed as
incurred. The current accounting rule, Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect
the Company.
 
     Telephone support. Telephone support costs are included in sales and
marketing.
 
     Income taxes. Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income
taxes, plus an accrual for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international
subsidiaries. Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax
returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of this
difference is reported as deferred income taxes. Tax credits are accounted for
as a reduction of tax expense in the year in which the credits reduce taxes
payable.
 
     Earnings per share. Earnings per share is computed on the basis of the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus the effect of
outstanding stock options, computed using the treasury stock method.
 
     Financial instruments. The Company considers all liquid investments with a
maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.
Short-term investments generally mature between three months and three years
from the purchase date. All cash and short-term investments are classified as
available for sale. Cost approximates market value for all classifications of
cash and short-term investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses are
not material.
 
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standard Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities was adopted in 1995 and did not have a
material impact on the financial statements.
 
     Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined using the first-in, first-out method.
 
     Property, plant, and equipment. Property, plant, and equipment is stated at
cost and depreciated using the straight-line method. Estimated lives are as
follows: buildings, 30 years; leasehold improvements, the lease term; computer
equipment and other, principally three years.
 
                                       23
<PAGE>   26
 
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
     Diversification of risk. The Company's investment portfolio is diversified
and consists of short-term investment grade securities. At June 30, 1994 and
1995, approximately 40% of accounts receivable represented amounts due from ten
channel purchasers. Two of these each accounted for approximately 10%, 13%, and
12% of revenues in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
     Finished goods sales to international customers in Europe, Japan,
Australia, and Canada are primarily billed in local currencies. Payment cycles
are relatively short, generally less than 90 days. European manufacturing costs
and international selling, distribution, and support costs are generally
disbursed in local currencies. Local currency cash balances in excess of
short-term operating needs are generally converted into U.S. dollar cash and
short-term investments upon receipt. Therefore, foreign exchange rate
fluctuations generally do not create a risk of material transaction gains or
losses. As a result, Microsoft's hedging activities for transaction exposures
have been minimal. No material hedge contracts were outstanding at June 30,
1995.
 
     Translated results of operations of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are
affected by foreign exchange rates. During 1995 and for 1996, the Company hedged
a percentage of planned translated international finished goods revenues by
purchasing options on the applicable currencies. Premiums paid for the options,
which were not material, are being amortized over the lives of the options. Any
gains will be recognized when and if realized.
 
     Reclassifications. Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent
presentation.
 
CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          JUNE 30
                                                                     -----------------
                                                                      1994       1995
                                                                     ------     ------
        <S>                                                          <C>        <C>
        Cash and equivalents:
          Cash.....................................................  $  263     $  135
          Commercial paper.........................................     619      1,035
          Money market preferreds..................................     180        255
          Certificates of deposit..................................     218        492
          Bank loan participations.................................     197         45
                                                                     ------     ------
          Cash and equivalents.....................................   1,477      1,962
                                                                     ------     ------
        Short-term investments:
          Municipal securities.....................................   1,245      1,291
          Corporate notes and bonds................................     423        866
          U.S. Treasury securities.................................     417        444
          Commercial paper.........................................      52        187
                                                                     ------     ------
          Short-term investments...................................   2,137      2,788
                                                                     ------     ------
                  Cash and short-term investments..................  $3,614     $4,750
                                                                     ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          JUNE 30
                                                                     -----------------
                                                                      1994       1995
                                                                     ------     ------
        <S>                                                          <C>        <C>
        Land.......................................................  $  162     $  206
        Buildings..................................................     440        607
        Computer equipment.........................................     532        707
        Other......................................................     311        387
                                                                     ------     ------
        Property, plant, and equipment -- at cost..................   1,445      1,907
        Accumulated depreciation...................................    (515)      (715)
                                                                     ------     ------
        Property, plant, and equipment -- net......................  $  930     $1,192
                                                                     ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
                                       24
<PAGE>   27
 
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision for income taxes was composed of:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             1993       1994       1995
                                                            ------     ------     ------
        <S>                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
        Current taxes:
          U.S. and state.................................    $352       $470       $518
          International..................................     123         94        151
                                                             ----       ----       ----
          Current taxes..................................     475        564        669
        Deferred taxes...................................     (27)        12         45
                                                             ----       ----       ----
        Provision for income taxes.......................    $448       $576       $714
                                                             ====       ====       ====
</TABLE>
 
     Differences between the U.S. statutory and effective tax rates were:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             1993       1994       1995
                                                            ------     ------     ------
        <S>                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
        U.S. statutory rate..............................    34.0%      35.0%      35.0%
        Tax exempt income................................    (0.6)      (0.9)      (1.1)
        Foreign sales corporation........................    (1.0)      (1.0)      (0.7)
        Tax credits......................................    (0.9)      (2.1)      (1.6)
        State taxes and other -- net.....................     0.5        2.5        1.4
                                                             ----       ----       ----
        Effective tax rate...............................    32.0%      33.5%      33.0%
                                                             ====       ====       ====
</TABLE>
 
     Deferred income tax balances were:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           JUNE 30
                                                                      -----------------
                                                                       1994       1995
                                                                      ------     ------
        <S>                                                            <C>        <C>
        Deferred income tax assets:
          Revenue items..................................              $  61      $  68
          Expense items..................................                143        221
                                                                       -----      -----
          Deferred income tax assets.....................                204        289
                                                                       -----      -----
        Deferred income tax liabilities:
          International earnings.........................               (147)      (276)
          Other..........................................                 (4)        (5)
                                                                       -----      -----
          Deferred income tax liabilities................               (151)      (281)
                                                                       -----      -----
               Net deferred income tax asset.............              $  53      $   8
                                                                       =====      =====
</TABLE>
 
     U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            1993       1994       1995
                                                           ------     ------     ------
        <S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
        U.S..............................................  $  960     $1,281     $1,549
        International....................................     441        441        618
                                                           ------     ------     ------
        Income before income taxes.......................  $1,401     $1,722     $2,167
                                                           ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
     The Internal Revenue Service is examining the Company's U.S. income tax
returns for 1990 and 1991. The Company believes any adjustments from the
examination will not be material to the financial statements. Income taxes paid
were $187 million, $247 million, and $430 million in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
                                       25
<PAGE>   28
 
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
COMMON STOCK
 
     Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  1993     1994     1995
                                                                  ----     ----     ----
        <S>                                                        <C>      <C>      <C>
        Balance, beginning of year..............................   544      565      581
        Issued..................................................    27       25       19
        Repurchased.............................................    (6)      (9)     (12)
                                                                   ---      ---      ---
        Balance, end of year....................................   565      581      588
                                                                   ===      ===      ===
</TABLE>
 
     The Company repurchases its common stock in the open market to provide
shares for issuance to employees under stock option and stock purchase plans.
The Company's Board of Directors authorized continuation of this program in
1996.
 
PUT WARRANTS
 
     In connection with the Company's stock repurchase program, put warrants
were sold to independent third parties during 1995. The put warrants entitle the
holders to sell shares of Microsoft common stock to the Company at specified
prices. On June 30, 1995, 8.0 million warrants were outstanding with a strike
price of $69.75 per share. The warrants expire at various dates between February
1996 and November 1996, are exercisable only at maturity, and are settleable in
cash at Microsoft's option. The maximum potential repurchase obligation of $405
million has been reclassified from stockholders' equity to put warrants as of
June 30, 1995. There was no impact on earnings per share in 1995.
 
EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS
 
     Employee stock purchase plan. The Company has an employee stock purchase
plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares of the Company's common
stock may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of the lower of the fair
market value on the first or the last day of each six-month period. Employees
may purchase shares having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation
during an offering period. During 1993, 1994, and 1995, employees purchased 1.0
million, 1.1 million, and 1.0 million shares at average prices of $33.29,
$34.16, and $46.76 per share. At June 30, 1995, 2.1 million shares were reserved
for future issuance.
 
     Savings plan. The Company has a savings plan, which qualifies under Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, participating U.S.
employees may defer up to 15% of their pretax salary, but not more than
statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar
contributed by a participant, with a maximum contribution of 3% of a
participant's earnings. The Company's matching contributions to the savings plan
were $7 million, $9 million, and $12 million in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
 
     Stock option plans. The Company has stock option plans for directors,
officers, and all employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock
options. The Board of Directors determines the option price (not to be less than
fair market value for incentive options) at the date of grant. Options granted
prior to 1995 generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years
from the date of grant. Options granted during and after 1995 generally vest
over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date of grant,
while certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire after ten
years. At June 30, 1995, options for 58.5 million shares were vested and 92.8
million shares were available for future grants under the plans.
 
                                       26
<PAGE>   29
 
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
     Stock options outstanding were as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     PRICE PER SHARE
                                                                -------------------------
                                                                                 WEIGHTED
                                                     NUMBER        RANGE         AVERAGE
                                                     ------     ------------     --------
        <S>                                          <C>        <C>               <C>
        Balance, June 30, 1992.....................  120.3      $ 0.31-39.79      $12.44
        Granted....................................   24.4       30.88-44.25       34.30
        Exercised..................................  (26.2)       0.31-36.92        7.95
        Canceled...................................   (4.4)       4.97-44.13       14.23
                                                     -----
        Balance, June 30, 1993.....................  114.1        0.31-44.25       18.06
        Granted....................................   26.2       35.50-50.13       37.47
        Exercised..................................  (20.9)       1.51-44.25       11.42
        Canceled...................................   (5.5)       5.01-44.13       28.67
                                                     -----
        Balance, June 30, 1994.....................  113.9        0.31-50.13       23.29
        Granted....................................   21.7       47.75-83.13       50.50
        Exercised..................................  (17.6)       0.31-47.75       15.81
        Canceled...................................   (4.2)       5.11-75.00       35.40
                                                     -----
        Balance, June 30, 1995.....................  113.8        1.54-83.13       29.12
                                                     =====
</TABLE>
 
LEASES
 
     The Company has operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and
support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was
$54 million, $68 million, and $86 million in 1993, 1994, and 1995. Future
minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, in millions of dollars,
are: 1996, $78; 1997, $65; 1998, $56; 1999, $44; 2000, $28; and thereafter, $13.
 
THE MICROSOFT NETWORK
 
     During 1995, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI)
purchased a 20% minority interest in the newly formed Microsoft Online Services
Partnership. TCI contributed $125 million of TCI common stock and Microsoft
contributed the business assets of its online service, The Microsoft Network,
which was in development. Microsoft owns 80% of the entity, whose operations
have not been material to the financial results of Microsoft. The entity was
subsequently reorganized into The Microsoft Network, LLC.
 
NONCONTINUING ITEMS
 
     In the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company paid a $46 million breakup fee
to Intuit Inc. in connection with the termination of a planned merger.
 
     In the third quarter of 1994, the Company recorded a $120 million charge to
reflect the estimated impact of a jury verdict in the Stac Electronics patent
litigation and related expenses. In June 1994, the Company reached an agreement
with Stac to settle the litigation and adjusted its estimate accordingly,
resulting in a credit of $30 million in the fourth quarter and a net pretax
charge of $90 million for 1994.
 
CONTINGENCIES
 
     On July 15, 1994, Microsoft and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)
entered into a consent decree resolving the DOJ's non-public investigation of
Microsoft. In the consent decree, which involves no admission of wrongdoing on
Microsoft's part, Microsoft agreed to make certain changes in its OEM licensing
practices. Microsoft also agreed to employ a uniform duration in its
nondisclosure agreement for precommercial versions
 
                                       27
<PAGE>   30
 
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
of certain operating system products, and clarified the rights and
responsibilities of those signing such nondisclosure agreements. The consent
decree was approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on
August 21, 1995.
 
     The Antitrust Division of the DOJ has stated that it is conducting an
investigation concerning Microsoft's inclusion of client-access software for The
Microsoft Network in Windows 95. Although there is no assurance that this matter
will be resolved favorably and that Microsoft's future financial statements will
not be adversely affected, Microsoft currently believes that resolution of this
matter will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or
results of operations.
 
INFORMATION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            1993       1994       1995
                                                           ------     ------     ------
        <S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
        Net revenues
          U.S. operations................................  $2,655     $3,472     $4,495
          European operations............................   1,289      1,401      1,575
          Other international operations.................     395        375        558
          Eliminations...................................    (586)      (599)      (691)
                                                           ------     ------     ------
                  Total net revenues.....................  $3,753     $4,649     $5,937
                                                           ======     ======     ======
        Operating income
          U.S. operations................................  $  961     $1,394     $1,709
          European operations............................     360        346        412
          Other international operations.................      18         31         91
          Eliminations...................................     (13)       (45)      (174)
                                                           ------     ------     ------
                  Total operating income.................  $1,326     $1,726     $2,038
                                                           ======     ======     ======
        Identifiable assets
          U.S. operations................................  $2,944     $4,397     $5,862
          European operations............................   1,133      1,366      1,806
          Other international operations.................     310        423        689
          Eliminations...................................    (582)      (823)    (1,147)
                                                           ------     ------     ------
                  Total identifiable assets..............  $3,805     $5,363     $7,210
                                                           ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>
 
     Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
representative of unaffiliated party transactions. "U.S. operations" include
shipments to customers in the U.S., licensing to OEMs, and exports of finished
goods directly to international customers, primarily in Canada, South America,
and Asia. Exports and international OEM transactions are primarily in U.S.
dollars and totaled $426 million, $787 million, and $1,263 million in 1993,
1994, and 1995. "Other international operations" primarily include subsidiaries
in Australia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. International revenues, which include
European operations, other international operations, exports, and OEM
distribution, were 55.3%, 54.0%, and 55.3% of total revenues in 1993, 1994, and
1995.
 
                                       28
<PAGE>   31
 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Microsoft Corporation:
 
     We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation
and subsidiaries as of June 30, 1994 and 1995, the related statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders' equity for each of the three years ended June 30,
1995. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index at Item 8. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries as of
June 30, 1994 and 1995, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years ended June 30, 1995 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion the financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.
 
/s/  DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
Seattle, Washington
July 17, 1995
(August 21, 1995 as to
Contingencies Note)
 
                                       29
<PAGE>   32
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information with respect to Directors may be found under the caption
"Election of Directors and Management Information" on pages 1 and 2 of the
Company's Proxy Statement dated September 25, 1995, for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held October 27, 1995 (the "Proxy Statement"). Such
information is incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to
Executive Officers may be found on pages 11 and 12 hereof, under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions
"Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" on pages 4 through 8 and
"Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" on page 2 is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding
Beneficial Ownership of Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" on
page 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" on page
8 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                       30
<PAGE>   33
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) Financial Statements and Schedules
 
         The financial statements of Microsoft as set forth under Item 8 are
         filed as part of this report.
 
         Supplemental Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts is filed
         on page 32 of this report.
 
         Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been
         omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, or the
         information is otherwise included.
 
         The independent auditors' report with respect to the above-listed
         financial statements and schedule appears on page 29 of this report.
 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of fiscal
         1995.
 
     (c) Exhibit Listing
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        EXHIBIT
        NUMBER                                    DESCRIPTION
        ------                                    -----------
        <S>        <C>
          3.1      Restated Articles of Incorporation(1)
          3.2      Bylaws(1)
         10.1      Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan(1)
         10.2      Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan(2)
         10.3      Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors(1)
         10.4      Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisor(1)
         10.5      Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
         10.6      Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan(1)
         10.7      Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft Corporation and First
                   Interstate Bank of Washington(3)
         10.8      Form of Indemnification Agreement(3)
         11.       Computation of Earnings Per Share
         21.       Subsidiaries
         23.       Independent Auditors' Consent
         27.       Financial Data Schedule
         99.1      Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock
                   Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June 30, 1995
         99.2      Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for
                   the Two Years Ended December 31, 1994 and the Nine Months Ended December
                   31, 1992
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 
(1) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
    Ended June 30, 1994.
 
(2) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8.
 
(3) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
    Ended June 30, 1993.
 
                                       31
<PAGE>   34
 
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                        ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                                        ----------------------
                                                                        1993     1994     1995
                                                                        ----     ----     ----
<S>                                                                     <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance, beginning of year............................................  $ 57     $ 76     $ 92
Additions charged to expense..........................................    47       27       51
Deductions............................................................   (28)     (11)      (4)
                                                                        ----     ----     ----
Balance, end of year..................................................  $ 76     $ 92     $139
                                                                        ====     ====     ====
</TABLE>
 
                                       32
<PAGE>   35
 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
Redmond, State of Washington, on September 13, 1995.
 
                                          MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
                                          By      /s/  MICHAEL W. BROWN
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     Michael W. Brown,
                                                  Vice President, Finance;
                                                  Chief Financial Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant
and in the capacities indicated on September 13, 1995.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  SIGNATURE                                        TITLE
                  ---------                                        -----
<S>                                             <C>
         /s/  WILLIAM H. GATES                      Chairman of the Board of Directors
- ---------------------------------------------           and Chief Executive Officer
              William H. Gates

           /s/  PAUL G. ALLEN                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------------
                Paul G. Allen

        /s/  RICHARD A. HACKBORN                                 Director
- ---------------------------------------------
             Richard A. Hackborn

        /s/  DAVID F. MARQUARDT                                  Director
- ---------------------------------------------
             David F. Marquardt

         /s/  ROBERT D. O'BRIEN                                  Director
- ---------------------------------------------
              Robert D. O'Brien
                                                                 Director
- ---------------------------------------------
              Wm. G. Reed, Jr.

          /s/  JON A. SHIRLEY                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------------
               Jon A. Shirley

         /s/  MICHAEL W. BROWN                            Vice President, Finance;                
- ---------------------------------------------              Chief Financial Officer
              Michael W. Brown                  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
</TABLE>
 
                                       33
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1





                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.5





                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                       1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN




                     As approved by the Board of Directors
                           on August 11, 1990 and the
                       Shareholders on October 26, 1990,
                     and amended by the Board of Directors
                       on April 23, 1994 and May 13, 1995
<PAGE>   2

                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION
                       1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN



         Microsoft Corporation (the "Company") does hereby establish its 1991
Employee Stock Purchase Plan as follows:

         1.      Purpose of the Plan.  The purpose of this Plan is to provide
eligible employees who wish to become shareholders in the Company a convenient
method of doing so.  It is believed that employee participation in the
ownership of the business will be to the mutual benefit of both the employees
and the Company.  It is the intention of the Company to have the Plan qualify
as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986. The provisions of the Plan shall, accordingly, be construed so as
to extend and limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements
of that Section of the Code.

         2.      Definitions.

                  2.1  "Base pay" means regular straight time earnings, plus
review cycle bonuses and overtime payments, payments for incentive
compensation, and other special payments except to the extent that any such
item is specifically excluded by the Board of Directors of the Company (the
"Board").

                  2.2  "Account" shall mean the funds accumulated with respect
to an individual employee as a result of deductions from his paycheck for the
purpose of purchasing stock under this Plan. The funds allocated to an
employee's account shall remain the property of the respective employee at all
times but may be commingled with the general funds of the Company.

         3.      Employees Eligible to Participate.  Any regular employee of
the Company or any of its subsidiaries who is in the employ of the Company on
one or more offering dates is eligible to participate in the Plan, except (a)
employees whose customary employment is less than 20 hours per week, and (b)
employees whose customary employment is for not more than five months in any
calendar year.

         4.      Offerings.  There will be twelve separate consecutive
six-month offerings pursuant to the Plan.  The first offering shall commence on
January 1, 1991.  Thereafter, offerings shall commence on each subsequent July 1
and January 1, and the final offering under this Plan shall commence on July 1,
1996 and terminate on December 31, 1996.  In order to become eligible to
purchase shares, an employee must sign an Enrollment Agreement, and any other
necessary papers on or before the commencement date (January 1 or July 1) of
the particular offering in which he wishes to participate.  Participation in
one offering under the Plan shall neither limit, nor require, participation in
any other offering.

         5.      Price.  The purchase price per share shall be the lesser of
(1) 85% of the fair market value of the stock on the offering date; or (2) 85%
of the fair market value of the stock on the last business day of the offering.
Fair market value shall mean the closing bid price as reported on the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or, if the stock
is traded on a stock exchange, the closing price for the stock on the principal
such exchange.

         6.      Offering Date.  The "offering date" as used in this Plan shall
be the commencement date of the offering, if such date is a regular business
day, or the first regular business day following such commencement date.  A
different date may be set by resolution of the Board.

         7.      Number of Shares to be Offered.  The maximum number of shares
that will be offered under the Plan is 6,750,000. The shares to be sold to
participants under the Plan will be common stock of the Company.  If the total
number of shares for which options are to be granted on any date in accordance
with Section 10 exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan
(after deduction



                                       2

<PAGE>   3

of all shares for which options have been exercised or are then outstanding),
the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available
in as nearly a uniform manner as shall be practicable and as it shall determine
to be equitable.  In such event, the payroll deductions to be made pursuant to
the authorizations therefor shall be reduced accordingly and the Company shall
give written notice of such reduction to each employee affected thereby.

         8.      Participation.

                  8.1  An eligible employee may become a participant by
completing an Enrollment Agreement provided by the Company and filing it with
Shareholder Services prior to the Commencement of the offering to which it
relates.

                  8.2  Payroll deductions for a participant shall commence on
the offering date, and shall end on the termination date of such offering
unless earlier terminated by the employee as provided in Paragraph 14.

         9.      Payroll Deductions.

                  9.1  At the time a participant files his authorization for a
payroll deduction, he shall elect to have deductions made from his pay on each
payday during the time he is a participant in an offering at the rate of 2%,
4%, 6%, 8%, or 10% of his base pay.

                  9.2  All payroll deductions made for a participant shall be
credited to his account under the Plan.  A participant may not make any
separate cash payment into such account nor may payment for shares be made
other than by payroll deduction.

                  9.3  A participant may discontinue his participation in the
Plan as provided in Section 14, but no other change can be made during an
offering and, specifically, a participant may not alter the rate of his payroll
deductions for that offering.

         10.     Granting of Option.  On the offering date, this Plan shall be
deemed to have granted to the participant an option for as many full shares as
he will be able to purchase with the payroll deductions credited to his account
during his participation in that offering.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
participant may purchase more than 2,250 shares of stock during any single
offering.

         11.     Exercise of Option.  Each employee who continues to be a
participant in an offering on the last business day of that offering shall be
deemed to have exercised his option on such date and shall be deemed to have
purchased from the Company such number of full shares of common stock reserved
for the purpose of the Plan as his accumulated payroll deductions on such date
will pay for at the option price.

         12.     Employee's Rights as a Shareholder. No participating employee
shall have any right as a shareholder with respect to any shares until the
shares have been purchased in accordance with Section 11 above and the stock
has been issued by the Company.

         13.     Evidence of Stock Ownership.

                 13.1  Promptly following the end of each offering, the number
of shares of common stock purchased by each participant shall be deposited into
an account established in the participant's name at a stock brokerage or other
financial services firm designated by the Company (the "ESPP Broker").

                 13.2  The participant may direct, by written notice to the
Company at the time of his enrollment in the Plan, that his ESPP Broker account
be established in the names of the participant and one other person designated
by the participant, as joint tenants with right of survivorship, tenants in
common, or community property, to the extent and in the manner permitted by
applicable law.





                                       3
<PAGE>   4

                 13.3  A participant shall be free to undertake a disposition
(as that term is defined in Section 424(c) of the Code) of the shares in his
account at any time, whether by sale, exchange, gift, or other transfer of
legal title, but in the absence of such a disposition of the shares, the shares
must remain in the participant's account at the ESPP Broker until the holding
period set forth in Section 423(a) of the Code has been satisfied.  With
respect to shares for which the Section 423(a) holding period has been
satisfied, the participant may move those shares to another brokerage account
of participant's choosing or request that a stock certificate be issued and
delivered to him.

                 13.4  A participant who is not subject to payment of U.S.
income taxes may move his shares to another brokerage account of his choosing
or request that a stock certificate be issued and delivered to him at any time,
without regard to the satisfaction of the Section 423(a) holding period.

         14.     Withdrawal.

                 14.1  An employee may withdraw from an offering, in whole but
not in part, at any time prior to the last business day of such offering by
delivering a Withdrawal Notice to the Company, in which event the Company will
refund the entire balance of his deductions as soon as practicable thereafter.

                 14.2  To re-enter the Plan, an employee who has previously
withdrawn must file a new Enrollment Agreement in accordance with Section 8.1.
The employee's re-entry into the Plan will not become effective before the
beginning of the next offering following his withdrawal, and if the withdrawing
employee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 he may not re-enter the Plan before the
beginning of the second offering following his withdrawal.

         15.     Carryover of Account.  At the termination of each offering the
Company shall automatically re-enroll the employee in the next offering, and
the balance in the employee's account shall be used for option exercises in the
new offering, unless the employee has advised the Company otherwise.  Upon
termination of the Plan, the balance of each employee's account shall be
refunded to him.

         16.     Interest.  No interest will be paid or allowed on any money in
the accounts of participating employees.

         17.     Rights Not Transferable.  No employee shall be permitted to
sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or encumber either the
payroll deductions credited to his account or any rights with regard to the
exercise of an option or to receive shares under the Plan other than by will or
the laws of descent and distribution, and such right and interest shall not be
liable for, or subject to, the debts, contracts, or liabilities of the
employee.  If any such action is taken by the employee, or any claim is
asserted by any other party in respect of such right and interest whether by
garnishment, levy, attachment or otherwise, such action or claim will be
treated as an election to withdraw funds in accordance with Section 14.

         18.     Termination of Employment.  Upon termination of employment for
any reason whatsoever, including but not limited to death or retirement, the
balance in the account of a participating employee shall be paid to the
employee or his estate.

         19.     Amendment or Discontinuance of the Plan.  The Board shall have
the right to amend, modify, or terminate the Plan at any time without notice,
provided that no employee's existing rights under any offering already made
under Section 4 hereof may be adversely affected thereby, and provided further
that no such amendment of the Plan shall, except as provided in Section 20,
increase above 6,750,000 the total number of shares to be offered unless
shareholder approval is obtained therefor.





                                       4
<PAGE>   5

         20.     Changes in Capitalization.  In the event of reorganization,
recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger,
consolidation, offerings of rights, or any other change in the structure of the
common shares of the Company, the Board may make such adjustment, if any, as it
may deem appropriate in the number, kind, and the price of shares available for
purchase under the Plan, and in the number of shares which an employee is
entitled to purchase.

         21.     Share Ownership.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, no employee shall be permitted to subscribe for any shares under the
Plan if such employee, immediately after such subscription, owns shares
(including all shares which may be purchased under outstanding subscriptions
under the Plan) possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or
value of all classes of shares of the Company or of its parent or subsidiary
corporations.  For the foregoing purposes the rules of Section 425(d) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall apply in determining share ownership.  In
addition, no employee shall be allowed to subscribe for any shares under the
Plan which permits his rights to purchase shares under all "employee stock
purchase plans" of the Company and its subsidiary corporations to accrue at a
rate which exceeds $25,000 of the fair market value of such shares (determined
at the time such right to subscribe is granted) for each calendar year in which
such right to subscribe is outstanding at any time.

         22.     Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by the Board.
The Board shall be vested with full authority to make, administer, and
interpret such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to administer the
Plan, and any determination, decision, or action of the Board in connection
with the construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the
Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all participants and any and
all persons claiming under or through any participant.

         The Board may delegate any or all of its authority hereunder to such
committee as it may designate.

         23.     Notices.  All notices or other communications by a participant
to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have
been duly given when received by Shareholder Services of the Company or when
received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the
person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.

         24.     Termination of the Plan.  This Plan shall terminate at the
earliest of the following:

                  24.1  December 31, 1996;

                  24.2  The date of the filing of a Statement of Intent to
Dissolve by the Company or the effective date of a merger or consolidation
wherein the Company is not to be the surviving corporation, which merger or
consolidation is not between or among corporations related to the Company.
Prior to the occurrence of either of such events, on such date as the Company
may determine, the Company may permit a participating employee to exercise the
option to purchase shares for as many full shares as the balance of his account
will allow at the price set forth in accordance with Section 5. If the employee
elects to purchase shares, the remaining balance of his account will be
refunded to him after such purchase.

                  24.3  The date the Board acts to terminate the Plan in
accordance with Section 19 above.

                  24.3  The date when all shares reserved under the Plan have
been purchased.

         25.     Limitations on Sale of Stock Purchased Under the Plan. The
Plan is intended to provide common stock for investment and not for resale.
The Company does not, however, intend to restrict or influence any employee in
the conduct of his own affairs.  An employee, therefore, may sell stock
purchased under the Plan at any time he chooses, subject to compliance with any
applicable Federal or state securities laws.  THE EMPLOYEE ASSUMES THE RISK OF
ANY MARKET FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF THE STOCK.





                                       5
<PAGE>   6

         26.     Governmental Regulation.  The Company's obligation to sell and
deliver shares of the Company's common stock under this Plan is subject to the
approval of any governmental authority required in connection with the
authorization, issuance, or sale of such shares.

         [The number of shares set forth in Sections 7, 10, and 19 have been
changed to reflect the effect of three-for-two stock splits in 1991 and 1992,
and a two-for-one stock split in 1994.]





                                       6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                     EXHIBIT 11.
COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year Ended June 30
                                                            ----------------------------
                                                             1993      1994        1995
                                                            -----     ------      ------
<S>                                                         <C>       <C>         <C>
Weighted average common shares outstanding                    556        571         582
Common equivalent shares from stock options                    50         39          45
                                                            -----     ------      ------
Average common and equivalent shares outstanding (1)          606        610         627
                                                            =====     ======      ======
Net income                                                  $ 953     $1,146      $1,453
                                                            =====     ======      ======
Earnings per share (1)                                      $1.57     $ 1.88      $ 2.32
                                                            =====     ======      ======
</TABLE>


__________________
(1) Fully diluted earnings per share have not been presented because the
    effects are not material.





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                     EXHIBIT 21.
SUBSIDIARIES
<TABLE>
 <S>                                                   <C>
 Antura S.A.R.L.                                       Microsoft Informatica Limitada (Brazil)
 ASCII Network Technology, Inc. (Japan JV)             Microsoft Institute PTY Limited
 CorporacionMicrosoft Del Ecuador S.A.                 Microsoft International BV (The Netherlands)
 Corporation MS 90 de Venezuela SA                     Microsoft Israel Ltd.
 Dram Realty, Inc.                                     Microsoft Kft (Hungary)
 Dreamworks Interactive L.L.C. (U.S. JV)               Microsoft Limited (U.K.)
 Forethought Inc.                                      Microsoft (Thailand) Limited
 Fox Software GmbH (Germany)                           Microsoft (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa)
 Fox Software, Inc.                                    Microsoft Manufacturing B.V. (Ireland manufacturing)
 Fox Software (U.K.) Limited                           Microsoft Maroc S.A.R.L. (Morocco)
 Fox Software S.A.R.L. (France)                        Microsoft Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
 GraceMac Corporation                                  Microsoft New Zealand Limited
 HomePlate, Inc.                                       Microsoft Norge AS (Norway)
 ImageWare Research and Development, Inc. (Canada)     Microsoft N.V. (Belgium)
 Microsoft A.O. (Russia)                               Microsoft Oy (Finland)
 Microsoft AG (Switzerland)                            Microsoft Perc, S.A.
 Microsoft Aktiebolag (Sweden)                         Microsoft Phillipines, Inc.
 Microsoft B.V. (The Netherlands)                      Microsoft Properties France S.A.R.L.
 Microsoft Bilgisayar Yazilim Hizmetleri Limited       Microsoft Properties UK Limited
   Sirketi (Turkey)
 Microsoft Canada Inc.                                 Microsoft Pty Limited (Australia)
 Microsoft Caribbean, Inc. (Puerto Rico)               Microsoft Puerto Rico, Inc. (Manufacturing)
 Microsoft CH (Korea)                                  Microsoft Rendermorphics Limited (U.K.)
 Microsoft Chile S.A.                                  Microsoft (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
 Microsoft Colombia Inc.                               Microsoft Singapore Pte Ltd
 Microsoft Company, Limited (Japan)                    Microsoft Slovakia s.r.o.
 Microsoft Coris, S.P.A. (Italy JV)                    MSFT-Software Para Microcomputadores, LDA (Portugal)
 Microsoft Corporation-Beijing Representative Office   Microsoft S.p.A. (Italy)
   (The Peoples Republic of China)
 Microsoft Corporation (Dubai Branch)                  Microsoft sp. z.o.o. (Poland)
 Microsoft Corporation Limitada (Colombia)             Microsoft s.r.o. (Czech Republic)
 Microsoft Corporation (India) Private Limited         Microsoft Taiwan Corporation
 Microsoft d.o.o., Ljubljana (Slovenia)                Microsoft Venezuela, S.A.
 Microsoft Danmark ApS (Denmark)                       Microsoft Workgroup Canada, Inc.
 Microsoft de Argentina S.A.                           MSHC Inc. (Holding Company)
 Microsoft De Centroamerica S.A. (Costa Rica)          NRI India, Inc.
 Microsoft Distribution Limited (Ireland)              On Australia Pty. Limited (Australia JV)
 Microsoft Europe S.A.R.L. (European Headquaters)      SoftCapital, Inc.
 Microsoft France S.A.R.L.                             SOFTIMAGE France S.A.R.L.
 Microsoft FSC Corp.                                   SOFTIMAGE, Inc. (Canada)
 Microsoft Gesellschaft m.b.H. (Austria)               SOFTIMAGE, Italy S.R.L.
 Microsoft G.m.b.H. (Germany)                          SOFTIMAGE U.K. Limited
 Microsoft Hellas S.A. (Greece)                        Technology Resources Management Corporation
 Microsoft Hong Kong Limited                           The Monotype Corporation
 Microsoft Iberica S.R.L. (Spain)
</TABLE>





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                     EXHIBIT 23.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT

Microsoft Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Numbers
33-06335, 33-18381, 33-25575, 33-33695, and 33-37623 (Microsoft Corporation
1981 Stock Option Plan), 33-44302 and 33-51583 (Microsoft Corporation 1991
Stock Option Plan), 33-37622 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan), 33-10732 (Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan), 33-36498
(Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors) and
33-45617 (Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors)
of Microsoft Corporation on Forms S-8 and 33-29823, 33-34794, 33-36347,
33-46958, 33-49496, 33-56039, 33-57277, 33-57899, 33-58867, 33-62725, and
33-64870 of Microsoft Corporation on Forms S-3 of our report dated July 17,
1995 (August 21, 1995 as to Contingencies Note) appearing in and incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the
year ended June 30, 1995.
        
/S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington
September 25, 1995





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER>   1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1995
<CASH>                                           4,750
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                      720
<ALLOWANCES>                                       139
<INVENTORY>                                         88
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 5,620
<PP&E>                                           1,907
<DEPRECIATION>                                     715
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                   7,210
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            1,347
<BONDS>                                              0
<COMMON>                                         2,005
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                       3,328
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                     7,210
<SALES>                                          5,937
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 5,937
<CGS>                                              877
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    3,848
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                    16
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    51
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   2
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  2,167
<INCOME-TAX>                                       714
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,453
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,453
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     2.32
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     2.32
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN FINANCIAL STMTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1





                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.1
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE
THREE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1995,
1994, AND 1993, AND
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

<PAGE>   2





INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Plan Administrator
Microsoft Corporation
1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Redmond, Washington

We have audited the accompanying statements of assets available for benefits of
the Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Plan) as of
June 30, 1995 and 1994, and the related statements of changes in assets
available for benefits for the years ended June 30, 1995, 1994, and 1993.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Plan Administrator.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by the Plan Administrator, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the assets available for benefits of the Plan as of June 30, 1995 and
1994, and the changes in assets available for benefits for the years ended June
30, 1995, 1994, and 1993, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

/s/  DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington
August 11, 1995





<PAGE>   3

MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
JUNE 30, 1995 AND 1994


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   1995             1994
                                                                 --------         --------
<S>                                                              <C>              <C>
ASSETS:
       Cash                                                      $295,579         $492,243
                                                                 --------         --------
ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS                                    $295,579         $492,243
                                                                 ========         ========
</TABLE>





See note to financial statements.                                          2





<PAGE>   4

MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1995, 1994, AND 1993


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            1995             1994               1993
                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
<S>                                                      <C>              <C>               <C>
ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS,
      beginning of period                                $   492,243      $   961,962       $   366,638

ADDITIONS:
      Employee contributions                              48,835,432       48,614,990        34,114,121

DEDUCTIONS:
      Cost of shares purchased                            49,032,095       39,084,709        33,518,797
                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
CHANGES IN ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR
      BENEFITS                                              (196,664)        (469,719)          595,324
                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS,
      end of period                                      $   295,579      $   492,243       $   961,962
                                                         ===========      ===========       ===========
</TABLE>                                                                      





See note to financial statements.                                           3
<PAGE>   5

MICROSOFT CORPORATION
1991 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

NOTE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1995, 1994, AND 1993


NOTE 1:      THE PLAN

The following description of the Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the Plan) provides only general information.  Participants
should refer to the Plan agreement for a complete description of the Plan's
provisions.

    GENERAL:  The Plan Administrator believes the Plan meets the qualification
    standards of Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  The Plan is
    not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security
    Act of 1974 (ERISA).

    The Plan covers substantially all employees of Microsoft Corporation (the
    Company) whose customary employment is greater than 20 hours per week, and
    more than five months in any calendar year.

    CONTRIBUTIONS:  Participants may make contributions to the Plan through
    payroll deductions (not exceeding 10% of their compensation) for the
    purpose of purchasing the Company's common stock.  The Plan commenced on
    January 1, 1991, and participants are given the opportunity to purchase
    shares on each June 30 and December 31 until such time as the Plan is
    terminated (see Termination of the Plan).  The maximum number of shares
    that will be offered under the Plan is 6,750,000.

    OPTIONS GRANTED AND WITHDRAWALS:  Participants are granted the option to
    purchase shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock from the Company at
    85% of the lesser of the fair market value on the first or last day of each
    six-month period ending June 30 or December 31.  If the participant does
    not exercise the option, the Company refunds the participant for amounts
    withheld. The Plan purchased 1,049,695, 1,147,508, and 1,006,988, shares
    during the years ended June 30, 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.  A
    total of 4,686,060 shares have been purchased under the Plan since
    inception with 2,063,940 shares reserved for future issue.

    ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS:  Assets available for benefits represent
    cash in participant accounts that was less than the amount necessary to
    purchase a full share and cash contributed to the Plan greater than the
    cost of the maximum number of shares allowed to be purchased in a six-month
    period (see Limitations).  Participants may carry over such amounts to the
    next period.

    LIMITATIONS:  No employee shall be permitted to subscribe for any shares
    under the Plan if such employee owns shares representing 5% or more of the
    total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the
    Company.  Additionally, no participant may purchase more than 2,250 shares
    of stock during a six-month period, or purchase shares through the Plan
    with an aggregate fair market value in excess of $25,000 in any one
    calendar year.

    TERMINATION OF THE PLAN:  The Plan shall terminate at the earliest of the
    following:

    o    December 31, 1996





                                                                               4
<PAGE>   6

    o    The date of the filing of a statement of intent to dissolve by the
         Company or the effective date of a merger or consolidation (except
         with a related company) where the Company is not to be the surviving
         corporation

    o    The date the Board acts to terminate the Plan

    o    The date when all shares reserved under the Plan have been purchased

    In the event of a dissolution, merger, or acquisition, the Company may
    permit a participating employee to exercise options to the extent that
    employee payroll deductions have accumulated. In the event of termination,
    Plan assets will be distributed to the participants.

    PLAN ADMINISTRATION:  All expenses for administration of the Plan are paid
    by the Company, and are not reflected in the accompanying statements.





                                                                               5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>SAVINGS PLUS PLAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.2

MICROSOFT CORPORATION
SAVINGS PLUS PLAN

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE
TWO YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, AND
NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992, AND
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT





                                                                               
<PAGE>   2

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Plan Administrator
Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan
Redmond, Washington

We have audited the accompanying statements of assets available for benefits of
the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (the Plan) as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, and the related statements of changes in assets available for
benefits for the two years ended December 31, 1994, and the nine months ended
December 31, 1992.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Plan administrator.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and the significant
estimates made by the Plan administrator, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the assets available for benefits of the Plan as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, and the related statements of changes in assets available for
benefits for the two years ended December 31, 1994, and the nine months ended
December 31, 1992, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.  The supplemental schedules of assets
held for investment as of December 31, 1994, and reportable transactions for
the year then ended are presented for the purpose of additional analysis and
are not a required part of the basic financial statements but are supplementary
information required by the Department of Labor's Rules and Regulations for
Reporting and Disclosure under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974.  These supplemental schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, are fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.


/s/  DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington
July 10, 1995





                                                                               
<PAGE>   3

MICROSOFT CORPORATION SAVINGS PLUS PLAN

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      1994                   1993
                                                                                  ------------           ------------
<S>                                                                               <C>                    <C>
ASSETS:
      Investments held by trustee at fair value:
            Microsoft Corporation Stock Fund                                      $ 96,047,305           $ 57,717,671
            Fidelity Magellan Fund                                                  30,791,846             19,930,432
            Fidelity U.S. Equity Index Fund                                         23,368,129             20,685,406
            Fidelity Retirement Money Market Fund                                   19,881,402             16,776,143
            Fidelity Growth Company Fund                                            17,814,128             11,638,038
            Fidelity Intermediate Bond Fund                                         15,775,411             14,653,568
            Fidelity Overseas Fund                                                  11,290,171              5,292,574
      Participant loans receivable                                                   1,867,625              1,122,588
                                                                                  ------------           ------------
ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS                                                     $216,836,017           $147,816,420
                                                                                  ============           ============
</TABLE>










See notes to financial statements.                                           2
<PAGE>   4

MICROSOFT CORPORATION SAVINGS PLUS PLAN

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN ASSETS
AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
TWO YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, AND
NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           1994                   1993                   1992
                                                                       ------------           ------------           ------------
<S>                                                                    <C>                    <C>                    <C>
ADDITIONS:
      Investment income:
            Interest and dividends                                     $  4,440,600           $  4,978,058           $  2,530,108
            Net appreciation in fair value of
                  investments                                            25,559,250                328,116              4,705,139
                                                                       ------------           ------------           ------------
                        Total net investment income                      29,999,850              5,306,174              7,235,247

      Contributions:
            Employer                                                     10,616,736              8,539,976              5,003,882
            Employee                                                     35,374,522             26,901,086             16,310,632
                                                                       ------------           ------------           ------------
                        Total contributions                              45,991,258             35,441,062             21,314,514
                                                                       ------------           ------------           ------------
                        Total additions                                  75,991,108             40,747,236             28,549,761

DEDUCTIONS:
      Benefits paid to participants                                       6,971,511              2,734,102              1,320,423
                                                                       ------------           ------------           ------------
CHANGES IN ASSETS AVAILABLE
      FOR BENEFITS                                                       69,019,597             38,013,134             27,229,338

ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS:
      Beginning of year                                                 147,816,420            109,803,286             82,573,948
                                                                       ------------           ------------           ------------
      End of year                                                      $216,836,017           $147,816,420           $109,803,286
                                                                       ============           ============           ============
</TABLE>










See notes to financial statements.                                          3
<PAGE>   5

MICROSOFT CORPORATION SAVINGS PLUS PLAN

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TWO YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, AND
NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

NOTE 1:      DESCRIPTION OF THE PLAN AND
             SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


    PLAN DESCRIPTION:  The Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (the Plan)
    is a defined contribution plan.  All employees of Microsoft Corporation
    (the Company) who have reached 18 years of age may enroll during the month
    following completion of six months of service or during any subsequent
    quarterly enrollment period.  The Plan is subject to the provisions of the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).  The Plan is
    administered by the Vice President of Human Resources and Administration of
    Microsoft Corporation.

    CONTRIBUTIONS:  Participants may contribute from 1% to 15% of their
    compensation, tax deferred, through payroll deductions up to a maximum of
    $9,240 under current law.  The amount of a participant's tax-deferred
    contributions may be subject to limitations.  Participant contributions may
    be suspended at any time.  Contributions may be reinstated on the first day
    of the quarter that is at least six months after contributions were
    suspended.

    The Company makes a matching contribution equal to 50% of a participant's
    contributions up to 6% of the participant's individual compensation.
    Company contributions are funded on a semimonthly basis.

    VESTING:  Employee contributions are fully vested immediately.  Employer
    contributions vest fully upon completion of two years of service by a
    participant, or when a participant reaches age 65, dies, or becomes
    disabled.

    DISTRIBUTIONS:  Participants may make a withdrawal from the vested portion
    of their account if the Plan administrator determines a withdrawal is
    necessary to avoid a financial hardship or if the participant is at least
    59-1/2 years of age.

    FORFEITURES:  Any nonvested interest of a terminated employee shall not be
    forfeited to the Plan until a one-year period of severance service has
    passed.  At this time, the forfeited amount is distributed to the Plan.  If
    a terminated employee is reemployed before five consecutive one-year
    periods of severance have passed, the forfeited amount will be reallocated
    to the individual's account.

    ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES:  Expenses for administration of the Plan are paid
    by the Company.

    PLAN AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION:  The Company has the right to modify,
    amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason.  If
    the Plan is terminated, account balances will be fully vested and will be
    distributed in the form and manner determined by the Plan administrator.

    VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS AND PARTICIPANT LOANS:  Investments are recorded
    at fair value. Security transactions are accounted for as of the trade
    date.  Fair market value is based on quoted prices.  Loans to participants
    are recorded at contract value, which approximates fair value.  Dividend
    income is recorded on the ex-dividend date and interest income is recorded
    as earned.





                                                                               4
<PAGE>   6

NOTE 2:      INVESTMENTS

Fidelity Investments (Fidelity) is trustee of the Plan.  All Plan investments
are held by Fidelity.  Investment funds available to participants are
summarized as follows:

    MICROSOFT CORPORATION STOCK FUND:  The Microsoft Corporation Stock Fund
    consists entirely of the Company's common stock.

    FIDELITY U.S. EQUITY INDEX FUND:  The Fidelity U.S. Equity Index Fund
    consists mainly of common stocks of the companies that make up Standard &
    Poor's 500 Index.  The fund seeks investment results that correspond to the
    total return performance of United States publicly traded common stocks.

    FIDELITY RETIREMENT MONEY MARKET FUND:  The Fidelity Retirement Money
    Market Fund strives to maintain a stable $1 share price while its yield
    will fluctuate with changes in market conditions.  The fund seeks as high a
    level of current income as is consistent with the preservation of capital
    and liquidity.

    FIDELITY INTERMEDIATE BOND FUND:  The Fidelity Intermediate Bond Fund
    consists of investment-grade fixed income obligations.  The fund seeks a
    high level of current income.

    FIDELITY MAGELLAN FUND:  The Fidelity Magellan Fund consists of common
    stocks, and securities convertible to common stock, issued by companies
    operating in the United States or abroad.  The fund seeks long-term capital
    appreciation.

    FIDELITY GROWTH COMPANY FUND:  The Fidelity Growth Company Fund consists
    mainly of investments in companies with above average growth
    characteristics as demonstrated in earnings or gross sales.  The fund seeks
    long-term capital appreciation.

    FIDELITY OVERSEAS FUND:  The Fidelity Overseas Fund consists of investments
    in securities of issuers whose principal activities are outside the United
    States.  The fund seeks long-term capital appreciation.





                                                                               5
<PAGE>   7

The following details activity for each of the participant-directed investment
accounts at fair value.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Fidelity                             
                                    Microsoft       Fidelity        Fidelity        Retirement                
                                   Corporation      Magellan       U.S. Equity     Money Market               
                                   Stock Fund         Fund         Index Fund         Fund                    
                                   -----------     -----------     -----------     -----------                
<S>                                <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>                        
Balance, December 31, 1993         $57,717,671     $19,930,432     $20,685,406     $16,776,143                 
                                                                                                              
  Net investment income (loss)      30,227,408        (534,447)        235,253         753,604                   
  Employer contributions             2,965,531       2,303,844       1,207,840       1,055,766                    
  Employee contributions             9,650,674       7,649,724       3,981,633       3,294,995                    
  Benefits paid to participants     (2,610,753)       (712,176)       (940,002)     (1,177,295)                 
  Transfers                         (1,903,226)      2,154,469      (1,802,001)       (821,811)               
                                   -----------     -----------     -----------     -----------                
                                                                                                              
Balance, December31,1994           $96,047,305     $30,791,846     $23,368,129     $19,881,402                 
                                   ===========     ===========     ===========     ===========                
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Fidelity                                                         Total
                                       Growth          Fidelity       Fidelity       Participant       assets
                                       Company      Intermediate     Overseas          Loan          available
                                        Fund            Fund            Fund            Fund         for benefits
                                     -----------     -----------     -----------     -----------     ------------     
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
Balance, December 31, 1993           $11,638,038     $14,653,568     $5,292,574      $1,122,588      $147,816,420
                                                
  Net investment income (loss)          (300,914)       (286,380)       (94,674)                       29,999,850
  Employer contributions               1,304,567         964,777        814,411                        10,616,736
  Employee contributions               4,729,657       3,052,750      3,015,089                        35,374,522
  Benefits paid to participants         (606,881)       (646,537)      (277,867)                       (6,971,511)
  Transfers                            1,049,661      (1,962,767)     2,540,638         745,037        
                                     -----------     -----------     -----------     ----------      ------------     
                                                
Balance, December 31, 1994           $17,814,128     $15,775,411     $11,290,171     $1,867,625      $216,836,017
                                     ===========     ===========     ===========     ==========      ============
</TABLE>




                                       6
<PAGE>   8

NOTE 3:      PARTICIPANT LOANS

Effective January 1, 1993, Plan participants are permitted to borrow up to 50%
of the total vested account balance.  Participants are limited to one
residential loan and one nonresidential loan outstanding.  The interest rate
for residential loans is based on the yield for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation 30-year mortgage commitment for a standard conventional fixed rate
mortgage, plus 1%.  The interest rate for nonresidential loans will be the
prime rate on corporate loans plus 1%.  The range of interest rates was 7% -
9.5% for nonresidential loans and 8.78% - 10.26% for residential loans for the
year ended December 31, 1994.  Loan repayment is made through after-tax
semimonthly payroll deductions over a period of up to 15 years for residential
loans and five years for nonresidential loans.  If a participant's employment
terminates for any reason and the loan balance is not paid in full by the
participant in the month of termination, the loan balance will be cancelled and
become taxable income to the participant.

NOTE 4:      TAX STATUS

The Internal Revenue Service has determined and informed the Plan by a letter
dated June 18, 1990, that the Plan is tax-exempt under the appropriate sections
of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code).  The Plan has been amended subsequent
to the date of the determination letter.  The Plan administrator, however,
believes that the Plan is in compliance with the applicable requirements of the
Code.  As such, they believe the Plan is tax-exempt as of the financial
statement date.  Accordingly, no provision for income taxes has been recorded.





                                                                               7
<PAGE>   9

MICROSOFT CORPORATION SAVINGS PLUS PLAN

ITEM 27(a) - SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT
DECEMBER 31, 1994

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Shares                                        Fair
                                                               or units                Cost                   value
                                                              ----------           ------------          -------------
<S>                                                           <C>                  <C>                    <C>
DESCRIPTION OF ASSETS:
      Microsoft Corporation Stock Fund                         1,571,326           $ 45,542,299           $ 96,047,305
      Fidelity U.S. Equity Index Fund                          1,381,912             21,918,218             23,368,129
      Fidelity Retirement Money Market Fund                   19,881,402             19,881,402             19,881,402
      Fidelity Intermediate Bond Fund                          1,604,823             16,602,396             15,775,411
      Fidelity Magellan Fund                                     460,955             31,616,996             30,791,846
      Fidelity Growth Company Fund                               653,490             18,421,938             17,814,128
      Fidelity Overseas Fund                                     413,559             11,132,566             11,290,171
      Participant loans receivable                                                    1,867,625              1,867,625
                                                                                   ------------           ------------
                                                                                   $166,983,440           $216,836,017
                                                                                   ============           ============
</TABLE>





                                                                               8
<PAGE>   10

MICROSOFT CORPORATION SAVINGS PLUS PLAN

ITEM 27(d) - SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF REPORTABLE TRANSACTIONS
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Purchases                                 Sales
                                             ------------      ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                 Fair value
                                               Purchase         Selling           Cost          of asset on           Net gain
                                                price            price          of asset       transaction date        (loss)
                                              -----------      ----------      ----------      ----------------      ----------
<S>                                           <C>              <C>             <C>                <C>                <C>
SERIES OF TRANSACTIONS:                                                                    
   Microsoft Corporation Stock Fund           $16,657,341      $8,526,670      $5,020,086         $8,526,670         $3,506,584
   Fidelity Magellan Fund                      15,318,082       2,938,371       3,001,448          2,938,371            (63,077)
   Fidelity Intermediate Bond Fund              5,573,490       3,089,675       3,153,371          3,089,675            (63,696)
   Fidelity Overseas Fund                       7,510,209       1,227,829       1,164,110          1,227,829             63,719
   Fidelity Retirement Money Market Fund        7,921,260       4,816,001       4,816,001          4,816,001
   Fidelity U.S. Equity Index Fund              6,457,870       3,306,876       3,050,705          3,306,876            256,171
   Fidelity Growth Company Fund                 9,157,878       1,990,665       2,004,396          1,990,665            (13,731)
</TABLE>





                                                                               
                                                                            9
                                                                            
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
