-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UVepzoWOqodPcbdJKlvq+KRG7hdbm8DC1hAvPsrUIHIoZR3GRRBpI2QW2xQF6Gcu
 u1VElwevm5lu0samQm8CZA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001047469-98-009108.txt : 19980310
<SEC-HEADER>0001047469-98-009108.hdr.sgml : 19980310
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-98-009108
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19971231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980309
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ABBOTT LABORATORIES
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000001800
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				360698440
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02189
		FILM NUMBER:		98560584

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD
		STREET 2:		D-322 AP6D
		CITY:			ABBOTT PARK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064-3500
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(708)-937-6100
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934
 
                                       OR
 
/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                            ------------------------
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-2189
 
                                ABBOTT LABORATORIES
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                    <C>
       AN ILLINOIS CORPORATION                      36-0698440
                                          (I.R.S. employer identification
                                                      number)
 
        100 ABBOTT PARK ROAD                      (847) 937-6100
  ABBOTT PARK, ILLINOIS 60064-3500              (telephone number)
</TABLE>
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
               TITLE OF EACH CLASS                                 ON WHICH REGISTERED
<S>                                                 <C>
Common Shares, Without Par Value                    New York Stock Exchange
                                                    Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                    Pacific Exchange
</TABLE>
 
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS
REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                                 YES _X_ NO ____
 
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST
OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K. [  ]
 
THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE 704,362,489 SHARES OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY
NONAFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT, COMPUTED BY USING THE CLOSING PRICE AS REPORTED
ON THE CONSOLIDATED TRANSACTION REPORTING SYSTEM FOR ABBOTT LABORATORIES COMMON
SHARES WITHOUT PAR VALUE ON JANUARY 30, 1998, WAS APPROXIMATELY $49,877,668,752.
THE COMPANY HAS NO NON-VOTING COMMON EQUITY.
 
NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF JANUARY 31, 1998: 764,456,112.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
PORTIONS OF THE ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
31, 1997 ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PARTS I, II, AND IV.
 
PORTIONS OF THE 1998 ABBOTT LABORATORIES PROXY STATEMENT ARE INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE INTO PART III.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
                        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
    Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. The
Company's* principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and
sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products and services.
 
              FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS,
               GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS
 
    Incorporated herein by reference is the footnote entitled "Industry Segment
and Geographic Area Information" of the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Abbott Laboratories Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1997 (1997
Annual Report), filed as an exhibit to this report. Also incorporated herein by
reference are the text and table of sales by class of similar products included
in the section of the 1997 Annual Report captioned "Financial Review."
 
                       NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
PHARMACEUTICAL AND NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS
 
    Included in this segment is a broad line of adult and pediatric
pharmaceuticals and nutritionals. These products are sold primarily on the
prescription or recommendation of physicians or other health care professionals.
The segment also includes agricultural and chemical products, bulk
pharmaceuticals, and consumer products.
 
    Principal pharmaceutical and nutritional products include the
anti-infectives clarithromycin, sold in the United States under the trademark
Biaxin-Registered Trademark- and outside the United States primarily under the
trademark Klacid-Registered Trademark-, and tosufloxacin, sold in Japan under
the trademark Tosuxacin-Registered Trademark-, various forms of the antibiotic
erythromycin, sold primarily as PCE-Registered Trademark- or polymer coated
erythromycin, Erythrocin-Registered Trademark-, and
E.E.S.-Registered Trademark-, and Norvir-Registered Trademark- , a protease
inhibitor for the treatment of HIV infection; agents for the treatment of
epilepsy and bipolar disorder, including Depakote-Registered Trademark- and
Gabitril-TM-; a broad line of cardiovascular products, including
Loftyl-Registered Trademark-, a vasoactive agent sold outside the United States;
Hytrin-Registered Trademark-, used as an anti-hypertensive and for the treatment
of benign prostatic hyperplasia; Abbokinase-Registered Trademark-, a
thrombolytic drug; Survanta-Registered Trademark-, a bovine-derived lung
surfactant; various forms of prepared infant formula, including
Similac-Registered Trademark-, Isomil-Registered Trademark-,
Alimentum-Registered Trademark-, and Similac NeoCare-Registered Trademark-; and
other medical and pediatric nutritionals, including
Ensure-Registered Trademark-, Ensure Plus-Registered Trademark-,
Ensure-Registered Trademark- High Protein, Ensure-Registered Trademark-Light,
Jevity-Registered Trademark-, Glucerna-Registered Trademark-,
PediaSure-Registered Trademark-, Pedialyte-Registered Trademark-,
Pulmocare-Registered Trademark-, and Gain-Registered Trademark-. Consumer
products include the dandruff shampoo Selsun Blue-Registered Trademark-;
Murine-Registered Trademark- eye care and ear care products; and
Tronolane-Registered Trademark- hemorrhoid medication. Agricultural and animal
health products include plant growth regulators, including
ProGibb-Registered Trademark- and ReTain-TM-; herbicides; larvicides, including
VectoBac-Registered Trademark-; biologically derived insecticides, including
DiPel-Registered Trademark- and XenTari-Registered Trademark-; anti-infectives,
including Saraflox-Registered Trademark- and Sarafin-Registered Trademark- and
medical surgical products, including Isoflo-Registered Trademark- and
Lifecare-Registered Trademark-.
 
    Pharmaceutical and nutritional products are generally sold directly to
retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most
cases, they are distributed from Company-owned distribution centers or public
warehouses. Certain products are co-marketed with other companies. In
 
- ------------------------
 
*   As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Company"
    refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott
    Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.
 
                                       1
<PAGE>
certain countries overseas, some of these products are marketed and distributed
through distributors. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical and
nutritional products are directed toward securing the prescription or
recommendation of the Company's brand of products by physicians or other health
care professionals. In the United States, managed care purchasers, for example,
health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and pharmacy benefit managers, are
becoming increasingly important customers. Competition is generally from other
broad line and specialized health care manufacturers. A significant aspect of
competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new
products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can
result in product obsolescence. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs
for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical
products.
 
    Consumer products are promoted directly to the public by consumer
advertising. These products are generally sold directly to retailers and
wholesalers. Competitive products are sold by other diversified consumer and
health care companies. Competitive factors include consumer advertising,
scientific innovation, price, and availability of generic product forms.
 
    Agricultural, animal health and bulk pharmaceutical products are generally
sold to agricultural distributors, growers, companion animal health product
distributors, veterinarians and pharmaceutical companies. Competition is
primarily from chemical, animal health and agricultural companies. Competition
is based on numerous factors depending on the market served. Competitive factors
include product performance, quality, price, and technological advantages.
 
    The Company is the leading worldwide producer of the antibiotic
erythromycin. Ensure-Registered Trademark- is the leading medical nutritional
worldwide. Similac-Registered Trademark- is a leading infant formula in the
United States.
 
    Under an agreement between the Company and Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.
of Japan (Takeda), TAP Holdings Inc., (owned 50 percent by the Company and 50
percent by Takeda) together with its subsidiary, TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TAP),
develops and markets products in the United States. TAP markets
Lupron-Registered Trademark-, an LH-RH analog, and Lupron
Depot-Registered Trademark-, a sustained release form of
Lupron-Registered Trademark- in the United States. Lupron-Registered Trademark-
and Lupron Depot-Registered Trademark- are used for the palliative treatment of
advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious
puberty, and for preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by
uterine fibroids. TAP also markets Prevacid-Registered Trademark-
(lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor, and has a co-promotion arrangement with
the Company for Prevacid-Registered Trademark-. Prevacid-Registered Trademark-
is indicated for short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and
erosive esophagitis. It is also indicated for the eradication of H. pylori to
reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence, for long-term treatment of
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, and the maintenance of healed erosive esophagitis
and duodenal ulcers. The Company also has marketing rights to certain Takeda
products in select Latin American markets. The Company also markets
Lupron-Registered Trademark-, Lupron Depot-Registered Trademark-, Lupron
Depot-Ped-Registered Trademark-, and Prevacid-Registered Trademark- in select
markets outside the United States.
 
HOSPITAL AND LABORATORY PRODUCTS
 
    Hospital and laboratory products include diagnostic systems for blood banks,
hospitals, commercial laboratories, alternate-care testing sites, and consumers;
intravenous and irrigation fluids and related administration equipment,
including electronic drug delivery systems; drugs and drug delivery systems;
anesthetics; pain management products; critical care products; diagnostic
imaging products; and other medical specialty products for hospitals and
alternate-care sites. In the second quarter of 1997, the Company acquired
certain parenteral products businesses from Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
including the worldwide rights to Sanofi's proprietary
Carpuject-Registered Trademark- drug delivery system, a pre-filled, single-dose
syringe technology.
 
    The principal products included in this segment are parenteral (intravenous
or I.V.) solutions and related administration equipment sold as the
LifeCare-Registered Trademark- line of products,
LifeShield-Registered Trademark- needleless products, and
Venoset-Registered Trademark- products; irrigating fluids; parenteral
nutritionals such as Aminosyn-Registered Trademark- and
Liposyn-Registered Trademark-; Plum-Registered Trademark-,
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
Omni-Flow-Registered Trademark- and Abbott AIM-Registered Trademark- electronic
drug delivery systems; Abbott Pain Manager-Registered Trademark-;
patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) systems; venipuncture products; hospital
injectables including Carpuject-Registered Trademark- and
FirstChoice-Registered Trademark- generics; premixed I.V. drugs in various
containers; ADD-Vantage-Registered Trademark- and Nutrimix-Registered Trademark-
drug and nutritional delivery systems; anesthetics, including
Pentothal-Registered Trademark-, Amidate-Registered Trademark-, sevoflurane
(sold in the United States and a few other markets as
Ultane-Registered Trademark- and outside of the United States primarily under
the trademark Sevorane-Registered Trademark-), isoflurane and enflurane;
Calcijex-Registered Trademark-, an injectable agent for treatment of bone
disease in hemodialysis patients; critical care products including
Opticath-Registered Trademark- and OptiQue-TM- advanced sensor catheters,
Transpac-Registered Trademark- for hemodynamic monitoring, and specialty cardiac
products; Faultless-Registered Trademark- rubber sundry products; diagnostic
imaging products used in MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and CT (computed
tomography) imaging; screening tests for hepatitis B, HTLV-I/II, hepatitis B
core, and hepatitis C; tests for detection of AIDS antibodies and antigens, and
other infectious disease detection systems; tests for determining levels of
abused drugs with the ADx-Registered Trademark- instrument; physiological
diagnostic tests; cancer monitoring tests including tests for prostate specific
antigen; laboratory tests and therapeutic drug monitoring systems such as
TDx-Registered Trademark-; clinical chemistry systems such as Abbott
Spectrum-Registered Trademark-, Abbott Spectrum-Registered Trademark-
EPx-Registered Trademark-, Abbott Spectrum-Registered Trademark- CCx-TM-, Abbott
Alycon-TM-, and Quantum-TM-; AxSYM-Registered Trademark-,
Commander-Registered Trademark-, IMx-Registered Trademark-, and Abbott
Prism-Registered Trademark- lines of diagnostic instruments and chemical
reagents used with immunoassay diagnostics; the LCx-Registered Trademark-
amplified DNA probe system and reagents; Abbott Vision-Registered Trademark-, a
desk-top blood analyzer; the Abbott TestPack-Registered Trademark- system for
diagnostic testing; a full line of hematology systems and reagents known as the
Cell-Dyn-Registered Trademark- series; the MediSense line of blood glucose
monitoring meters and test strips for diabetics including Precision
Q.I.D.-Registered Trademark-, the Precision G-Registered Trademark- hospital
system, the ExacTech-Registered Trademark-, the MediSense II-TM-, and the
ExacTech RSG-TM-; and the Fact Plus-Registered Trademark- and Fact
Plus-Registered Trademark- One Step pregnancy tests.
 
    The Company markets hospital and laboratory products in the United States
and many other countries. These products are generally distributed to
wholesalers and directly to hospitals, laboratories, and physicians' offices
from distribution centers maintained by the Company. Sales in the home infusion
services market are also made directly to patients receiving treatment outside
the hospital through marketing arrangements with hospitals and other health care
providers. Overseas sales are made either directly to customers or through
distributors, depending on the market served. Blood glucose monitoring meters
and test strips for diabetics and the Fact Plus-Registered Trademark- and Fact
Plus-Registered Trademark- One Step pregnancy tests are sold over the counter to
consumers.
 
    The hospital and laboratory products industry segment is highly competitive,
both in the United States and overseas. This segment is subject to competition
in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument
warranty provisions, product performance, long-term supply contracts, and
product potential for overall cost effectiveness and productivity gains.
Products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. The
Company has benefitted from technological advantages of certain of its current
products; however, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors
introduce new products.
 
    The Company is one of the leading domestic manufacturers of I.V. and
irrigating solutions and related administration equipment, parenteral
nutritional products, anesthesia products, and drug delivery systems. It is also
the worldwide leader in in vitro diagnostic products, including thyroid tests,
therapeutic drug monitoring, cancer monitoring tests, diagnostic tests for the
detection of hepatitis and AIDS antibodies, and immunodiagnostic instruments.
 
         INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL
 
SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS
 
    The Company purchases, in the ordinary course of business, necessary raw
materials and supplies essential to the Company's operations from numerous
suppliers in the United States and overseas. There have been no recent
availability problems or significant supply shortages.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, AND LICENSES
 
    The Company is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection
for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and trademarks are sought
and obtained for the Company's products in the United States and all countries
of major marketing interest to the Company. The Company owns, has applications
pending for, and is licensed under a substantial number of patents. Principal
trademarks and the products they cover are discussed in the Narrative
Description of Business on pages 1, 2 and 3. These, and various patents which
expire during the period 1998 to 2018, in the aggregate, are believed to be of
material importance in the operation of the Company's business. The Company
believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents,
licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to clarithromycin, are
material in relation to the Company's business as a whole. The original United
States compound patent covering clarithromycin is licensed from Taisho
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, and will expire in 2005. In addition,
the patents, licenses, and trademarks related to Depakote-Registered Trademark-
and Hytrin-Registered Trademark- are significant products for the Company's
Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products segment. The United States patents
covering Depakote-Registered Trademark- will expire in 2008. In the United
States, the original compound patent covering Hytrin-Registered Trademark- has
expired. The Company has other patents in the United States covering certain
forms of Hytrin-Registered Trademark- which expire during the period 2000 to
2013. Litigation involving the Company's patents covering
Depakote-Registered Trademark- and Hytrin-Registered Trademark- is discussed in
Legal Proceedings on pages 9 and 10.
 
SEASONAL ASPECTS, CUSTOMERS, BACKLOG, AND RENEGOTIATION
 
    There are no significant seasonal aspects to the Company's business. The
incidence of certain infectious diseases which occur at various times in
different areas of the world does, however, affect the demand for the Company's
anti-infective products. Orders for the Company's products are generally filled
on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to the Company's business.
No single customer accounted for sales equaling 10 percent or more of the
Company's consolidated net sales. No material portion of the Company's business
is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the
election of the government.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
    The Company spent $1,302,403,000 in 1997, $1,204,841,000 in 1996, and
$1,072,745,000 in 1995 on research to discover and develop new products and
processes and to improve existing products and processes. The Company continues
to concentrate research expenditures in pharmaceutical and diagnostic products.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
    The Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects
with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection.
Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent
limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various
manufacturing operations. The Company's capital and operating expenditures for
pollution control in 1997 were approximately $25 million and $44 million,
respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control are
estimated to approximate $23 million and $49 million, respectively, in 1998.
 
    The Company has been identified as one of many potentially responsible
parties in investigations and/ or remediations at 18 locations in the United
States and Puerto Rico under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. The aggregate
costs of remediation at these sites by all identified parties are uncertain but
have been subject to widely ranging estimates totaling as much as several
hundred million dollars. In many cases, the Company believes that the actual
costs will be lower than these estimates, and the fraction for which the Company
may be responsible is anticipated to be considerably less and will be paid out
over a number of years. The
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
Company may participate in the investigation or cleanup at these sites. The
Company is also voluntarily investigating potential contamination at two
Company-owned sites, and has initiated remediation at four sites, in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar state agencies.
 
    While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the costs related to the
previously described investigation and cleanup activities, the Company believes
that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with
applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, cash flows,
or results of operations.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    The Company employed 54,487 persons as of December 31, 1997.
 
REGULATION
 
    The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of the Company's
products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government
regulation by various federal, state, and local agencies, which includes
detailed inspection of and controls over research and laboratory procedures,
clinical investigations, and manufacturing, marketing, sampling, distribution,
recordkeeping, storage, and disposal practices, substantially increases the
time, difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval
to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions
can result in the seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the
authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal
sanctions.
 
    Continuing studies of the utilization, safety, and efficacy of health care
products and their components are being conducted by industry, government
agencies, and others. Such studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated
methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and
efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and
may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products
and give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been
injured as a result of their use.
 
    The cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of
investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and
private organizations in the United States and other countries. In the United
States, most states have enacted generic substitution legislation requiring or
permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's
version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. Federal and state
governments continue to press efforts to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid
programs, including restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for the use
of products. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related
group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under
Medicare or Medicaid. The DRG system entitles a health care facility to a fixed
reimbursement based on discharge diagnoses rather than actual costs incurred in
patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or
control expenditures for many health care products. Manufacturers must pay
certain statutorily-prescribed rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement
on prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. The Veterans Health Care Act
of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical
products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans
Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health Service entities and
institutions.
 
    In the United States, governmental cost-containment efforts have extended to
the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants,
and Children (WIC). All states participate in WIC and have sought and obtained
rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the
program. All of the states have conducted competitive bidding for infant formula
contracts which require the use of specific infant formula products by the state
WIC program. The Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989 requires
all states participating in WIC to engage in competitive bidding
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
or to use any other cost containment measure that yields savings equal to or
greater than the savings generated by a competitive bidding system.
 
    Governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug manufacturers to
pay fees. The Federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) imposes substantial
fees on various aspects of the approval, manufacture, and sale of proprietary
prescription drugs. The FDA's authority to impose these fees was reauthorized by
the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997.
 
    The Company expects debate to continue during 1998 at both the federal and
the state level over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for
health care products and services. The Company believes that if legislation is
enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of
price increases, for medical products and services.
 
    International operations are also subject to a significant degree of
government regulation. Many countries, directly or indirectly through
reimbursement limitations, control the selling price of most health care
products. Furthermore, many developing countries limit the importation of raw
materials and finished products. International regulations are having an impact
on United States regulations, as well. The International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) provides the criteria for meeting the regulations for
medical devices within the European Union. The Company has made significant
strides in gaining ISO 9000 and European Norm 46000 certification for facilities
that manufacture devices for European markets. The FDA recently adopted
regulations governing the manufacture of medical devices that appear to
encompass and exceed the ISO's approach to regulating medical devices. The FDA's
adoption of the ISO's approach to regulation and other changes to the manner in
which the FDA regulates medical devices will increase the cost of compliance
with those regulations.
 
    Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private
sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost
reduction and containment measures.
 
    It is not possible to predict the extent to which the Company or the health
care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.
 
                            INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
    The Company markets products in approximately 130 countries through
affiliates and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding
sections of this report are also sold outside the United States. In addition,
certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local
regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are manufactured and marketed
to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to
certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United
States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency
exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises,
expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
    The Company's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott
Park, Illinois 60064-3500. The locations of the Company's principal plants are
listed below.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        LOCATION                                   INDUSTRY SEGMENTS OF PRODUCTS PRODUCED
- --------------------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>
Abbott Park, Illinois                                     Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Abingdon, England                                         Hospital and Laboratory Products
Altavista, Virginia                                       Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products
Ashland, Ohio                                             Hospital and Laboratory Products
Austin, Texas                                             Hospital and Laboratory Products
Barceloneta, Puerto Rico                                  Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Bedford, Massachusetts                                    Hospital and Laboratory Products
Campoverde, Italy                                         Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Casa Grande, Arizona                                      Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products
Columbus, Ohio                                            Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products
Delkenheim, Germany                                       Hospital and Laboratory Products
Irving, Texas                                             Hospital and Laboratory Products
Laurinburg, North Carolina                                Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
McPherson, Kansas                                         Hospital and Laboratory Products
Mexico City, Mexico                                       Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Montreal, Canada                                          Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Morgan Hill, California                                   Hospital and Laboratory Products
North Chicago, Illinois                                   Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Queenborough, England                                     Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Rocky Mount, North Carolina                               Hospital and Laboratory Products
Salt Lake City, Utah                                      Hospital and Laboratory Products
Santa Clara, California                                   Hospital and Laboratory Products
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic                         Hospital and Laboratory Products
Sligo/Donegal/Cootehill/Finisklin, Ireland                Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Sturgis, Michigan                                         Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products
St. Remy, France                                          Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products, and Hospital
                                                            and Laboratory Products
Tokyo, Japan                                              Hospital and Laboratory Products
Zwolle, The Netherlands                                   Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Products
</TABLE>
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
    In addition to the above, the Company has manufacturing facilities in five
other locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Overseas
manufacturing facilities are located in 13 other countries. The Company's
facilities are deemed suitable, provide adequate productive capacity, and are
utilized at normal and acceptable levels.
 
    In the United States, including Puerto Rico, the Company owns 11
distribution centers. The Company also has 13 United States research and
development facilities located at Abbott Park, Illinois; Ashland, Ohio; Bedford,
Massachusetts; Columbus, Ohio (two locations); Irving, Texas; Long Grove,
Illinois; Madera, California; McPherson, Kansas; Morgan Hill, California; North
Chicago, Illinois; Santa Clara, California; and San Diego, California. Overseas,
the Company has research and development facilities in Argentina, Australia,
Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Spain and the
United Kingdom.
 
    The corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States that
are listed above, are owned by the Company or subsidiaries of the Company. The
remaining manufacturing plants and all other facilities are owned or leased by
the Company or subsidiaries of the Company.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, including
(as of January 31, 1998) two antitrust suits and five investigations in
connection with the Company's sale and marketing of infant formula products, 148
antitrust suits and two investigations in connection with the Company's pricing
of prescription pharmaceuticals, two cases involving the Company's patents for
divalproex sodium, a drug that the Company sells under the trademark
Depakote-Registered Trademark-, and five cases involving the Company's patents
for terazosin hydrochloride, a drug that the Company sells under the trademark
Hytrin-Registered Trademark-.
 
    The infant formula antitrust suits allege that the Company conspired with
one or more of its competitors to fix prices, restrain trade and monopolize the
market for infant formula in violation of state antitrust laws. The suits have
been brought on behalf of individuals and name the Company and certain other
infant formula manufacturers as defendants. The cases seek treble damages, civil
penalties, and other relief. On November 7, 1997, the Louisiana District Court
dismissed the plaintiff's complaint in the case that was pending in Louisiana.
The plaintiffs have appealed that decision. In 1997, a case was filed in state
court in St. Louis, Missouri. It purports to be a statewide consumer class
action. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss. A decision is pending. On
December 1, 1997, the court granted final approval to the settlement of the
infant formula case pending in United States District Court in Massachusetts.
The Company paid one and one-half million dollars under that settlement.
Investigations are being conducted by the Attorneys General of the states of
California, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
 
    As of January 31, 1998, 124 prescription pharmaceutical pricing antitrust
cases were pending in federal court, 23 were pending in state courts, and one
was pending in a District of Columbia court. The prescription pharmaceutical
pricing antitrust suits allege that various pharmaceutical manufacturers and
pharmaceutical wholesalers have conspired to fix prices for prescription
pharmaceuticals and/or to discriminate in pricing to retail pharmacies by
providing discounts to mail-order pharmacies, institutional pharmacies, and HMOs
in violation of state and federal antitrust laws. The suits have been brought on
behalf of individual consumers and retail pharmacies and name both the Company
and certain other pharmaceutical manufacturers and pharmaceutical wholesalers
and at least one mail-order pharmacy company as defendants. The cases seek
treble damages, civil penalties and injunctive and other relief. The Company has
filed or intends to file a response to each of the complaints denying all
substantive allegations. The state cases are pending in the following state
courts: Tuscaloosa County, Alabama; Yavapai County, Arizona; Alameda County,
California; Monterey County, California; San Francisco County, California (eight
cases); San Joaquin County, California; Cumberland County, Maine; Oakland
County, Michigan; Prentiss County, Mississippi; Hennepin County, Minnesota
(three cases); Mecklenburg County, North Carolina; and Dane County and
Washington County, Wisconsin. A case is also pending in
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
the Superior Court for the District of Columbia. The case which was pending in
New York County, New York, has been dismissed and is now on appeal. The case
that was pending in King County, Washington, was dismissed. In January 1998,
that dismissal became final. Motions for certification as a consumer class
action were denied in Maine, Michigan, and Minnesota. Appeals of the consumer
class certification decisions are pending in Maine and Michigan. Trial in the
individual consumer case pending in Michigan is scheduled for July 1998. Abbott
has entered into a settlement agreement to settle the retail pharmacy lawsuits
in Wisconsin and Minnesota. The settlement agreement in Minnesota was approved
on December 30, 1997. The cases pending in Greene County, Alabama; Dade County,
Florida; Johnson County, Kansas; and Davidson County, Tennessee, were removed to
the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The
plaintiffs challenged the removal orders. In August 1997, the Court of Appeals
reversed the Alabama removal and remanded the case to state court. The federal
jurisdictional issues in the Alabama, Florida, Kansas, and Tennessee cases are
now being considered by the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois. The manufacturer defendants have filed a petition for
certiorari with the United States Supreme Court seeking a reversal of the Court
of Appeals jurisdictional decision in the Alabama case. The federal cases are
pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois under the Multidistrict Litigation Rules as In re: Brand Name
Prescription Drug Antitrust Litigation, MDL 997. One of the cases which is
pending in the MDL 997 litigation has been certified as a class action on behalf
of certain retail pharmacies. A number of appeals to the Seventh Circuit Court
of Appeals were filed arising out of the MDL 997 litigation. The Company has
previously reported that these appeals were decided in August 1997. The
wholesaler defendants and the manufacturer defendants filed petitions for
certiorari to the United States Supreme Court on January 6, 1998. The
wholesalers' petition seeks a reversal of the Court of Appeals decision denying
summary judgment in the wholesalers' favor. The manufacturers' petition seeks to
reverse the Court of Appeals ruling that indirect purchasers of prescription
drugs may recover alleged overcharges in those cases in which the intermediary
purchaser (in this case, the wholesaler) is also alleged to be part of the
conspiracy. The federal retail pharmacy class action trial is scheduled to begin
in September 1998. The investigations are being conducted by the Attorney
General of Illinois and the Federal Trade Commission.
 
    On October 24, 1997, after having been notified that TorPharm, a division of
Apotex, Inc. ("TorPharm") had applied to the Federal Food and Drug
Administration (the "FDA") for approval for a generic version of divalproex
sodium, a drug that the Company sells under the trademark
Depakote-Registered Trademark-, the Company sued TorPharm in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging patent
infringement. TorPharm contends that its product does not infringe the Company's
patents and that, in any event, the patents are invalid and unenforceable. The
Company is involved in one other proceeding involving the Company's patents for
divalproex sodium. On August 28, 1992, after having been notified that Alra
Laboratories, Inc. ("Alra") had applied to the FDA for approval for a generic
version of divalproex sodium, the Company sued Alra in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging patent
infringement. Alra filed counterclaims alleging that the Company fraudulently
delayed Alra's entry into the market for divalproex sodium and seeking money
damages. Alra contended that its product did not infringe the Company's patents
and that, in any event, those patents were invalid and unenforceable. Alra filed
motions for summary judgment on the issues of infringement and validity. The
Company filed a motion for summary judgment on the issue of infringement. On
October 20, 1997, the court granted the Company's motion for summary judgment
and found that Alra's product infringes the Company's patents. The court denied
Alra's motions for summary judgment on the issues of infringement and patent
invalidity and dismissed the lawsuit. Alra filed a motion for reconsideration of
the court's ruling. That motion was granted in part and denied in part. The
court has stayed its earlier rulings on validity and infringement pending
further proceedings.
 
    As of January 31, 1998, five cases involving the Company's patents for
terazosin hydrochloride, a drug that the Company sells under the trademark
Hytrin-Registered Trademark-, were pending in federal court in the United
States. The Company has been separately notified first by Geneva
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Geneva") in April 1996, and then by Novopharm Limited
("Novopharm"), Invamed, Inc. ("Invamed") and Mylan
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Mylan") that these corporations had applied to the
Federal Food and Drug Administration for approval for a generic version of
terazosin hydrochloride. The Company sued each of these corporations in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging
patent infringement. These lawsuits were filed on June 4, 1996, against Geneva,
on September 13, 1996, against Novopharm, on August 1, 1997, against Mylan, and
on October 28, 1997, against Invamed. These corporations contend that the
Company's patent which covers their version of terazosin hydrochloride is
invalid and unenforceable. Geneva and Novopharm have filed motions for summary
judgment on the issue of validity. Additionally, in April 1996, Zenith
Laboratories, Inc. ("Zenith") sued the Company in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the Company has engaged in
unfair competition, abuse of process, tortious interference with prospective
economic advantage, and fraud in attempting to protect Hytrin from generic
competition. Zenith seeks money damages and a declaration that certain of the
Company's patents covering terazosin hydrochloride are invalid. The Company
filed counterclaims alleging patent infringement. Trial in the Zenith case is
scheduled to begin in May 1998.
 
    While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims,
proceedings, and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion
that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    None.
 
                                       10
<PAGE>
                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    Officers of the Company are elected annually by the board of directors at
the first meeting held after the annual shareholders meeting. Each officer holds
office until a successor has been duly elected and qualified or until the
officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any meeting
of the board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its
judgment, removal would serve the best interests of the Company.
 
    Current corporate officers, and their ages as of March 1, 1998, are listed
below. The officers' principal occupations and employment from January 1993 to
March 1, 1998 and the dates of their first election as officers of the Company
are also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by the Company for the
period indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate
officers or directors.
 
DUANE L. BURNHAM**, 56
 
    1993 to present -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and
                       Director.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1982.
 
THOMAS R. HODGSON**, 56
 
    1993 to present -- President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1980.
 
PAUL N. CLARK**, 51
 
    1993 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Executive Vice President.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.
 
ROBERT L. PARKINSON, JR.**, 47
 
    1993 -- Vice President, European Operations.
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.
 
    1995 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, International Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Executive Vice President.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1989.
 
MILES D. WHITE**, 42
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Diagnostic Systems
            and Operations.
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Systems and Operations.
 
    1994 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Executive Vice President.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
                                       11
<PAGE>
JOY A. AMUNDSON**, 43
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Vice President, Corporate Hospital Marketing.
 
    1994 to 1995 -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.
 
    1995 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Ross Products.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1990.
 
THOMAS D. BROWN**, 49
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.
 
    1993 to 1998 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
GARY P. COUGHLAN**, 53
 
    1993 to present -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                       Officer.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1990.
 
JOSE M. DE LASA**, 56
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Bristol-Myers
                    Squibb Company (Health and personal care products company).
 
    1994 -- Vice President, Secretary and Associate General Counsel,
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
 
    1994 to present -- Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1994.
 
WILLIAM G. DEMPSEY **, 46
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Abbott
                    Critical Care Systems.
 
    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector
Sales.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural
Products.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
RICHARD A. GONZALEZ**, 44
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, U.S. and
                    Canada, Diagnostic Products.
 
    1995 to 1998 -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Hospital Products.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.
 
                                       12
<PAGE>
ARTHUR J. HIGGINS**, 41
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Regional Director, Europe, Africa, and Middle East.
 
    1994 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Commercial Operations, Abbott
International Division.
 
    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa
Operations.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
JOHN G. KRINGEL**, 58
 
    1993 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Hospital Products.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1981.
 
THOMAS M. MCNALLY**, 50
 
    1993 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.
 
    1993 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Ross Products.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1989.
 
ELLEN M. WALVOORD**, 58
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs.
 
    1995 to present -- Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1991.
 
JOSEF WENDLER**, 48
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa.
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa Operations.
 
    1995 to 1998 -- Vice President, European Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, International Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
CATHERINE V. BABINGTON**, 45
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Director, Corporate Communications.
 
    1995 to present -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.
 
                                       13
<PAGE>
PATRICK J. BALTHROP, 41
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President and Sector General Manager,
                    Diagnostic Products.
 
    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, U.S. and
                    Canada, Diagnostic Products.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, U.S. and Canada.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
MARK E. BARMAK, 56
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President and Associate General Counsel,
                    Litigation.
 
    1995 to present -- Vice President, Litigation and Government Affairs.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.
 
CHRISTOPHER B. BEGLEY, 45
 
    1993 to 1996 -- Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.
 
    1996 to present -- Vice President, MediSense Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
DOUGLAS C. BRYANT, 40
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Regional Sales Manager, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1995 to 1997 -- General Manager, United Kingdom and Ireland, Diagnostics
Division.
 
    1997 to 1998 -- Commercial Director, Asia and Pacific, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, Asia and Pacific.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.
 
GARY R. BYERS**, 56
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Corporate Auditing.
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Internal Audit.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
THOMAS F. CHEN, 48
 
    1993 to 1994 -- General Manager, Korea and Taiwan.
 
    1994 to 1996 -- General Manager Taiwan and Peoples Republic of China Task
Force.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Regional Director, Taiwan and Peoples Republic of China.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.
 
KENNETH W. FARMER**, 52
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Management Information Services and
                       Administration.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.
 
                                       14
<PAGE>
EDWARD J. FIORENTINO, 39
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Business Unit Director, Antimicrobials, Pharmaceuticals
                    Division.
 
    1994 to 1998 -- Divisional Vice President, Marketing, Pharmaceuticals
Division.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Marketing and
Sales.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.
 
THOMAS C. FREYMAN**, 43
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President and Treasurer.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1991.
 
DAVID B. GOFFREDO, 43
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Marketing.
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Sales and
Marketing.
 
    1995 to 1998 -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Marketing and
Sales.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, European Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.
 
GUILLERMO A. HERRERA, 44
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Regional Director, Europe, Abbott International.
 
    1994 -- General Manager, Abbott Spain and Portugal.
 
    1994 to 1996 -- Area Vice President, Latin America.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Latin America Operations.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Latin America and Canada Operations.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
JAY B. JOHNSTON, 54
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Diagnostic Assays and
Operations.
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Assays and Systems.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
JAMES J. KOZIARZ, 49
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Diagnostic Products Research and
Development.
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Products Research and
Development.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
JOHN F. LUSSEN**, 56
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Taxes.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.
 
                                       15
<PAGE>
EDWARD L. MICHAEL, 41
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Business Unit Manager, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1995 to 1996 -- Director, Area Operations and Scientific Development.
 
    1997 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, Europe, Africa,
                       and Middle East.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1997.
 
THEODORE A. OLSON**, 59
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President and Controller.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1988.
 
ANDRE G. PERNET, 53
 
    1993 to 1994 -- Divisional Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development,
                    Pharmaceutical Products Division.
 
    1994 to present -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Research and
Development.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1994.
 
CARL A. SPALDING, 52
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Ross Pediatric
Products.
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Ross Pediatric Products.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
WILLIAM H. STADTLANDER, 52
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Medical Nutritionals.
 
    1993 to present -- Vice President, Ross Medical Nutritional Products.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.
 
MARCIA A. THOMAS **, 50
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Infectious
                    Diseases Diagnostics.
 
    1995 to 1996 - Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory
                   Affairs, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1996 to present -- Vice President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
H. THOMAS WATKINS**, 45
 
    1993 -- Divisional Vice President and Sector General Manager, Diagnostics
Division.
 
    1994 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Asia and
                    Pacific Diagnostics.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, Asia and Pacific.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
                                       16
<PAGE>
STEVEN J. WEGER, JR.**, 53
 
    1993 -- Director, Strategic Planning, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1994 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Technology
                    Assessment, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1996 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Planning and Development.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.
 
SUSAN M. WIDNER, 41
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Business Unit Manager, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1995 to 1996 -- Director, Venture Marketing, Diagnostics Division.
 
    1996 to 1998 -- Divisional Vice President, Worldwide Marketing, Diagnostics
                    Division.
 
    1998 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, U.S. and Canada.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.
 
LANCE B. WYATT**, 53
 
    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory
                    Affairs, Pharmaceutical Division.
 
    1995 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Engineering.
 
    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.
 
- ------------------------
 
**  Pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, the Company has identified these
    persons as "executive officers" within the meaning of Item 401(b).
 
                                       17
<PAGE>
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
PRINCIPAL MARKET
 
    The principal market for the Company's common shares is the New York Stock
Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific
Exchange and are traded on the Boston, Cincinnati, and Philadelphia Exchanges.
Overseas, the Company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the
Swiss Stock Exchange.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   MARKET PRICE PER SHARE
                                            -------------------------------------
          <S>                               <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
                                                  1997                1996
                                            -----------------   -----------------
                                             HIGH       LOW      HIGH       LOW
                                            -------   -------   -------   -------
          First Quarter...................   60 1/2    49 3/4    44 3/4    38 1/8
          Second Quarter..................   68 15/16  52 7/8    43 7/8    38 5/8
          Third Quarter...................   68 1/2    58 13/16  49 3/4    41 3/8
          Fourth Quarter..................   69 1/4    57 1/16   57 3/8    48 3/4
</TABLE>
 
    Market prices are as reported by the New York Stock Exchange composite
transaction reporting system.
 
SHAREHOLDERS
 
    There were 102,981 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of
December 31, 1997.
 
DIVIDENDS
 
    Quarterly dividends of $.27 per share and $.24 per share were declared on
common shares in 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    Incorporated herein by reference for the years 1993 through 1997 are the
applicable portions of the section captioned "Summary of Selected Financial
Data" of the 1997 Annual Report.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
    Incorporated herein by reference is management's discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations for the years 1997, 1996, and 1995
found under the section captioned "Financial Review" of the 1997 Annual Report.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
    Incorporated herein by reference is the section captioned "Financial
Instruments and Risk Management" of the 1997 Annual Report.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
    Incorporated herein by reference are the portions of the 1997 Annual Report
captioned Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Shareholders'
Investment, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Report of
 
                                       18
<PAGE>
Independent Public Accountants (which contains the related report of Arthur
Andersen LLP dated January 15, 1998 (except with respect to the matter discussed
in Note 12, as to which the date is February 13, 1998)). Data relating to
quarterly results is found in Note 9.
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    Incorporated herein by reference are "Committees of the Board of Directors"
and "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors" found in the 1998 Abbott
Laboratories Proxy Statement (1998 Proxy Statement).
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    The material in the 1998 Proxy Statement under the heading "Executive
Compensation," other than the Report of the Compensation Committee, the
Performance Graph, and Security Ownership of Officers and Directors is hereby
incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    Incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption
"Information Concerning Security Ownership" and the material under the heading
"Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 1998 Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    None.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    (a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS FORM 10-K.
 
    1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:  The Consolidated Financial Statements for the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995 and the related report of Arthur
Andersen LLP dated January 15, 1998 (except with respect to the matter discussed
in Note 12, as to which the date is February 13, 1998), appearing under the
portions of the 1997 Annual Report captioned Consolidated Statement of Earnings,
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated
Statement of Shareholders' Investment, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, and Report of Independent Public Accountants, respectively, are
incorporated by reference in response to Item 14(a)1. With the exception of the
portions of the 1997 Annual Report specifically incorporated herein by
reference, such Report shall not be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K or otherwise deemed subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
                                       19
<PAGE>
    2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES:  The required financial statement
schedules are found on the pages indicated below. These schedules should be read
in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 1997 Annual
Report:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
SCHEDULES                                                                                         PAGE NO.
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  -------------
<S>                                                                                             <C>
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Schedule II)                                                          23
Schedules I, III, IV, and V are not submitted because they are not applicable or not required.
Supplemental Report of Independent Public Accountants                                                    24
Individual Financial Statements of the registrant have been omitted pursuant to Rule 3.05,
 paragraph (1) of Regulation S-X.
</TABLE>
 
    3.  EXHIBITS REQUIRED BY ITEM 601 OF REGULATION S-K:  The information called
for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index
on pages 26 and 27 of this Form 10-K.
 
    (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K DURING THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997:
 
    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31,
1997.
 
    (c) EXHIBITS FILED (SEE EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGES 26 AND 27).
 
    (d) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES FILED (PAGE 23).
 
                                       20
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          ABBOTT LABORATORIES
 
                                          By /s/ DUANE L. BURNHAM
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             Duane L. Burnham
                                             Chairman of the Board and
                                             Chief Executive Officer
 
                                           Date: February 13, 1998
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott
Laboratories on February 13, 1998 in the capacities indicated below.
 
/s/ DUANE L. BURNHAM
- -------------------------------------------
Duane L. Burnham
Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer and
Director of Abbott Laboratories
(principal executive officer)
 
/s/ GARY P. COUGHLAN
- -------------------------------------------
Gary P. Coughlan
Senior Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer)
 
/s/ THOMAS R. HODGSON
- -------------------------------------------
Thomas R. Hodgson
President, Chief Operating Officer
and Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ THEODORE A. OLSON
- -------------------------------------------
Theodore A. Olson
Vice President and Controller
(principal accounting officer)
 
/s/ K. FRANK AUSTEN, M.D.
- -------------------------------------------
K. Frank Austen, M.D.
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER
- -------------------------------------------
H. Laurance Fuller
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ DAVID A. JONES
- -------------------------------------------
David A. Jones
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ DAVID A. L. OWEN
- -------------------------------------------
David A. L. Owen
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ BOONE POWELL, JR.
- -------------------------------------------
Boone Powell, Jr.
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ A. BARRY RAND
- -------------------------------------------
A. Barry Rand
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ W. ANN REYNOLDS
- -------------------------------------------
W. Ann Reynolds
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
                                       21
<PAGE>
/s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG
- -------------------------------------------
William D. Smithburg
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
/s/ WILLIAM L. WEISS
- -------------------------------------------
William L. Weiss
Director of Abbott Laboratories
 
                                       22
<PAGE>
                      ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996, AND 1995
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            AMOUNTS
                  ALLOWANCES FOR DOUBTFUL                     BALANCE AT    PROVISIONS    CHARGED OFF
                     ACCOUNTS AND SALES                        BEGINNING    CHARGED TO      NET OF     BALANCE AT
                         DEDUCTIONS                             OF YEAR      INCOME(A)    RECOVERIES   END OF YEAR
- ------------------------------------------------------------  -----------  -------------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>
        1997................................................     153,424        28,193       (14,211)     167,406
        1996................................................     157,990         7,389       (11,955)     153,424
        1995................................................     128,929        32,462        (3,401)     157,990
</TABLE>
 
(a) represents provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net
    change in the allowances for sales deductions.
 
                                       23
<PAGE>
             SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To Abbott Laboratories:
 
    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated January
15, 1998 (except with respect to the matter discussed in Note 12, as to which
the date is February 13, 1998). Our audits were made for the purpose of forming
an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. Schedule II is the
responsibility of the Company's management, is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules, and is not part
of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and,
in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
January 15, 1998
 
(except with respect to the matter
discussed in Note 12, as to
which the date is February 13, 1998)
<PAGE>
                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
    As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference of the following into the Company's previously filed S-8 Registration
Statements 33-4368 for the Abbott Laboratories 1986 Incentive Stock Program,
33-39798 for the Abbott Laboratories 1991 Incentive Stock Program, 333-09071 and
333-43381 for the Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program, 333-13091
for the Abbott Laboratories Ashland Union 401(k) Plan and Trust, and 33-26685,
33-51585, 33-56897, 33-65127, 333-19511 and 333-43383 for the Abbott
Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan and Trust and into the Company's previously
filed S-3 Registration Statements 33-50253 and 333-06155:
 
    1.  Our supplemental report dated January 15, 1998 (except with respect to
the matter discussed in Note 12, as to which the date is February 13, 1998)
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1997; and
 
    2.  Our report dated January 15, 1998 (except with respect to the matter
discussed in Note 12, as to which the date is February 13, 1998) incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1997.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
March 9, 1998
<PAGE>
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                              ABBOTT LABORATORIES
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                   FORM 10-K
                                      1997
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  10-K
 EXHIBIT
  TABLE
ITEM NO.
- ---------
<S>        <C>
 3.1       * Articles of Incorporation-Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories
             Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 3.2       * Corporate By-Laws-Abbott Laboratories, filed as Exhibit 3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report
             on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended March 31, 1997.
 4.1       * Indenture dated as of October 1, 1993, between Abbott Laboratories and Harris Trust and Savings Bank,
             filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30,
             1993, on Form 10-Q.
 4.2       * Form of 5.6% Note issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Abbott Laboratories
             Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on Form 10-Q.
 4.3       * Form of Medium-Term Note, Series A (Fixed Rate) to be issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as
             Exhibit 4.3 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on
             Form 10-Q.
 4.4       * Form of Medium-Term Note, Series A (Floating Rate) to be issued pursuant to the Indenture filed as
             Exhibit 4.4 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on
             Form 10-Q.
 4.5       * Resolution of the Company's Board of Directors filed as Exhibit 4.5 to the Abbott Laboratories
             Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on Form 10-Q.
 4.6       * Actions of the Authorized Officers with respect to the Company's $200,000,000 5.6% Notes filed as
             Exhibit 4.6 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on
             Form 10-Q.
 4.7       * Actions of the Authorized Officers with respect to the Company's Medium-Term Notes, Series A filed as
             Exhibit 4.7 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on
             Form 10-Q.
 4.8       * Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to the Company's $200,000,000 5.6% Notes filed as
             Exhibit 4.8 to the Abbott Laboratories Quarterly Report for the Quarter ended September 30, 1993, on
             Form 10-Q.
 4.9       * Form of 6.8% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.9 to the 1995 Abbott Laboratories
             Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 4.10      * Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to the Company's $150,000,000 6.8% Notes filed as Exhibit
             4.10 to the 1995 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 4.11      * Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to the Company's $150,000,000 6.8% Notes filed as
             Exhibit 4.11 to the 1995 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 4.12      * Resolution of the Company's Board of Directors relating to the 6.4% Notes filed as Exhibit 4.12 to the
             1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 4.13      * Form of $50,000,000 6.4% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.13 to the 1996 Abbott
             Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 4.14      * Form of $200,000,000 6.4% Note issued pursuant to Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.14 to the 1996 Abbott
             Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
</TABLE>
 
                                       26
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  10-K
 EXHIBIT
  TABLE
ITEM NO.
- ---------
<S>        <C>
 4.15      * Actions of Authorized Officers with respect to the Company's 6.4% Notes filed as Exhibit 4.15 to the
             1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 4.16      * Officers' Certificate and Company Order with respect to the Company's 6.4% Notes filed as Exhibit 4.16
             to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.
           Other debt instruments are omitted in accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. Copies
             of such agreements will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
10.1       * Supplemental Plan Abbott Laboratories Extended Disability Plan, filed as an exhibit (pages 50-51) to
             the 1992 Abbott Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K.**
10.2       The Abbott Laboratories 1986 Incentive Stock Program.**
10.3       The Abbott Laboratories 1991 Incentive Stock Program.**
10.4       Consulting agreement between Abbott Laboratories and K. Frank Austen, M.D. dated, December 15, 1997.**
10.5       * Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Abbott Laboratories 1993
             Annual Report on Form 10-K.**
10.6       * Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the 1996 Abbott Laboratories
             Annual Report on Form 10-K.**
10.7       * The 1986 Abbott Laboratories Management Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the 1996 Abbott
             Laboratories Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.**
10.8       Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan.**
10.9       The Abbott Laboratories 1996 Incentive Stock Program.**
11         Calculation of Diluted Earnings Per Common Share.
12         Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
13         The portions of the Abbott Laboratories Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1997 captioned
             Financial Review, Financial Instruments and Risk Management, Consolidated Statement of Earnings,
             Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of
             Shareholders' Investment, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Report of Independent Public
             Accountants, and the applicable portions of the section captioned Summary of Financial Data for the
             years 1993 through 1997.
21         Subsidiaries of Abbott Laboratories.
23         Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
27         Financial Data Schedule.
99.1       Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
           The 1998 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
             under separate cover on or about March 10, 1998.
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
 
*   Incorporated herein by reference.
 
**  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to
    be filed as an exhibit hereto.
 
    The Company will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a
shareholder upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Abbott
Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-3500.
 
                                       27
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.2
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                ABBOTT LABORATORIES
                                          
                            1986 INCENTIVE STOCK PROGRAM
                                          
                                          
                                          
     1.   PURPOSE.  The purpose of the Abbott Laboratories 1986 Incentive 
Stock Program (the "Program") is to attract and retain outstanding 
individuals as officers and key employees of Abbott Laboratories (the 
"Company") and its subsidiaries, and to furnish incentives to such persons by 
providing such persons opportunities to acquire common shares of the Company, 
or monetary payments based on the value of such shares or the financial 
performance of the Company, or both, on advantageous terms as herein provided.

     2.   ADMINISTRATION. The Program will be administered by a committee 
(the "Committee") which shall be either the Compensation Committee of the 
Board of Directors of the Company or such other committee comprised of 
"disinterested persons" as defined in Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission as the Board of Directors may from time to time 
designate.  The Committee shall interpret the Program, prescribe, amend and 
rescind rules and regulations relating thereto and make all other 
determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Program.  
A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum and all 
determinations of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members.  
Any determination of the Committee under the Program may be made without 
notice of meeting of the Committee by a writing signed by a majority of the 
Committee members.

     3.   PARTICIPANTS.  Participants in the Program will consist of such
officers or other key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries as the
Committee in its sole discretions may designate from time to time to receive
Benefits hereunder.  The Committee's designation of a 

<PAGE>

participant in any year shall not require the Committee to designate such 
person to receive a Benefit in any other year.  The Committee shall consider 
such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting participants and in 
determining the type and amount of their respective Benefits, including 
without limitation (i) the financial condition of the Company; (ii) 
anticipated profits for the current or future years; (iii) contributions of 
participants to the profitability and development of the Company; and (iv) 
other compensation provided to participants.  Non-Employee Directors shall 
also be participants in the Program solely for purposes of receiving 
Restricted Stock Awards under paragraph 13.  The term "Non-Employee Director" 
shall mean a person who is elected to the Board of Directors in April, 1987 
or at any time thereafter and who is not a full-time employee of the Company 
or any of its subsidiaries.

     4.   TYPES OF BENEFITS.  Benefits under the Program may be granted in any
one or a combination of (a) Incentive Stock Options; (b) Non-qualified Stock
Options; (c) Stock Appreciation Rights; (d) Limited Stock Appreciation Rights;
(e) Restricted Stock Awards; (f) Performance Units; and (g) Foreign Qualified
Benefits, all as described below and pursuant to the Plans set forth in
paragraphs 6-12 hereof.



     5.   SHARES RESERVED UNDER THE PROGRAM.  There is hereby reserved for
issuance under the Program an aggregate of Three Million Five Hundred Thousand
(3,500,000) common shares, which may be newly issued or treasury shares.  The
shares hereby reserved are in addition to the shares previously reserved under
the Company's 1973 Incentive Stock Plan, 1977 Incentive Stock Plan and 1981
Incentive Stock Program (the "Prior Stock Option Plans").  Any common shares
reserved for issuance under the Prior Stock Option Plans in excess of the number
of shares as to which options or other Benefits have been awarded on the date of
shareholder approval of this Program, plus any such shares as to which options
or other Benefits granted under the Prior 

<PAGE>

Stock Option Plans my lapse, expire, terminate or be canceled after such 
date, shall also be reserved and available for issuance in connection with 
Benefits under this Program.  All of such shares may, but need not, be issued 
pursuant to the exercise of the Incentive Stock Options.

     If there is a lapse, expiration, termination or cancellation of any Benefit
granted hereunder without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder,
or if shares are issued under any Benefit and thereafter are reacquired by the
Company pursuant to rights reserved upon the issuance thereof, the shares
subject to or reserved for such Benefit may again be used for new options,
rights or awards of any sort authorized under this Program; provided, however,
that in no event may the number of common shares issued under this Program
exceed the total number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder.



     6.   INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN.  Incentive Stock Options will consist 
of options to purchase common shares at purchase prices not less than One 
Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such common shares on the 
date of grant.  Incentive Stock Options will be exercisable over not more 
than ten (10) years after the date of grant and shall terminate not later 
than six (6) months after termination of employment for any reason other than 
retirement or death. In the event of retirement, or if the optionee should 
die while employed, the right of the optionee or his or her successor in 
interest to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate not later than 
sixty (60) months after the date of such retirement or death.  If the 
optionee should die within six (6) months after termination of employment for 
any reason other than retirement, the right of his or her successor in 
interest to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate not later than 
the later of six (6) months after the date of such termination or three (3) 
months after the date of such death.  If the optionee should die within sixty 
(60) months after retirement, the right of his or her successor in interest 
to 

<PAGE>

exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate not later than the later 
of sixty (60) months after the date of such retirement or six (6) months 
after the date of such death.  The aggregate fair market value (determined as 
of the time the Option is granted) of the common shares with respect to which 
Incentive stock options granted after December 31, 1986 are exercisable for 
the first time by any individual during any calendar year (under all option 
plans of the Company and its subsidiary corporations) shall not exceed 
$100,000.  An Incentive Stock Option granted to any individual prior to 
January 1, 1987 shall not be exercisable while there is outstanding any 
unexercised installment of any Incentive Stock Option which was granted, 
before the granting of such option, to such individual to purchase stock in 
the Company or in a corporation which (at the time of the granting of such 
option) is a parent or subsidiary corporation of the Company.   For purposes 
hereof, the term "outstanding" shall have the meaning provided by Section 
422A of the Internal Revenue Code.  No Incentive Stock Option may be granted 
to any individual who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock 
possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of 
all classes of stock of the Company or of the any parent or subsidiary 
corporation of the Company.

     7.   NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN.  Non-qualified Stock Options will
consist of options to purchase common shares at purchase prices not less than
One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such common shares on the
date of grant.  Non-qualified Stock Options will be exercisable over not more
than ten (10) years after the date of grant and shall terminate not later than
six (6) months after termination of employment for any reason other than
retirement or death.  In the event of retirement, or if the optionee should die
while employed, the right of the optionee or his or her successor in interest to
exercise a Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate not later than sixty (60)
months after the date of such retirement or death.  If the optionee should die

<PAGE>

within six (6) months after termination of employment for any reason other 
than retirement, the right of his or her successor in interest to exercise a 
Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate not later than the later of six 
(6) months after the date of such termination or three (3) months after the 
date of such death.  If the optionee should die within sixty (60) months 
after retirement, the right of his or her successor in interest to exercise a 
Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate not later than the later of sixty 
(60) months after the date of such retirement or six (6) months after the 
date of such death. 

     8.   STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLAN.  The Committee may, in its discretion,
grant a Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any stock option granted
hereunder or under the Prior Stock Option Plans.  Such Stock Appreciation Rights
shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Program as the
Committee shall impose from time to time, including the following:         



          (a)  A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with respect to a stock
               option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter up to
               six (6) months prior to its expiration.

          (b)  Stock Appreciation Rights will permit the holder to surrender any
               related stock option or portion thereof which is then exercisable
               and to elect to receive in exchange therefor cash in an amount 
               equal to:

                    (i)  The excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of such
                         election of one common share over the option price
                         multiplied by

                    (ii) The number of shares covered by such option or portion
                         thereof which is so surrendered.

          (c)  The Committee shall have the discretion to satisfy a
               participant's right to receive the amount of cash determined
               under subparagraph (b) hereof, in whole or in part, by the

<PAGE>

               delivery of common shares valued as of the date of the
               participant's election.

          (d)  A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a participant
               regardless of whether such participant has been granted a Limited
               Stock Appreciation Right with respect to the same stock option. 
               However, a Stock Appreciation Right may not be exercised during
               any period that a Limited Stock Appreciation Right with respect
               to the same stock option may be exercised.

          (e)  In the event of the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the
               number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder shall be reduced
               by the number of shares covered by the stock option or portion
               thereof surrendered.

     9.   LIMITED STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLAN.  The Committee may, in its 
discretion, grant a Limited Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any 
stock option granted hereunder or under the Prior Stock Option Plans.  Such 
Limited Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such terms and 
conditions consistent with the Program as the Committee shall impose from 
time to time, including the following:

          (a)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with respect to
               a stock option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter
               up to six (6) months prior to its expiration.

          (b)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right will permit the holder to
               surrender any related stock option or portion thereof which is
               then exercisable and to receive in exchange therefor cash in an
               amount equal to:

                    (i)  The excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of such
                         election of one common share over the option price
                         multiplied by

                    (ii) The number of shares covered by such option or portion
                         thereof which is so surrendered.

<PAGE>

          (c)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised only after
               six (6) months from its grant date (unless otherwise permitted
               under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission) and
               only during the sixty (60) day period commencing with the day
               following the date of a Change In Control.

          (d)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a
               participant regardless of whether such participant has been
               granted a Stock Appreciation Right with respect to the same stock
               option.

          (e)  In the event of the exercise of a Limited Stock Appreciation
               Right, the number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder shall
               be reduced by the number of shares covered by the stock option or
               portion thereof surrendered.

     10.  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS PLAN.  Restricted Stock Awards will consist of
common shares transferred to participants without other payment therefor as
additional compensation for their services to the Company or one of its
subsidiaries.  Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to such terms and
conditions as the Committee determines appropriate, including, without
limitations, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of such shares and
rights of the Company to reacquire such shares upon termination of the
participant's employment within specified periods. 

     11.   PERFORMANCE UNITS PLAN.  Performance Units shall consist of monetary
units granted to participants which may be earned in whole or in part if the
Company achieves certain goals established by the Committee over a designated
period of time, but not in any event more than five (5) years.  The goals
established by the Committee may include earnings per share, return on
shareholder equity, return on average total capital employed, and/or such other

<PAGE>

goals as may be established by the Committee in its discretion.  In the event 
the minimum corporate goal established by the Committee is not achieved at 
the conclusion of a period, no payment shall be made to the participant.  In 
the event the maximum corporate goal is achieved, One Hundred percent (100%) 
of the monetary value of the Performance Units shall be paid to or vested in 
the participants.  Partial achievement of the maximum goal may result in a 
payment or vesting corresponding to the degree of achievement.  Payment of an 
award earned may be in cash or in common shares or in a combination of both, 
and may be made when earned, or vested and deferred, as the Committee in its 
sole discretion determines.  Deferred awards shall earn interest on the terms 
and at a rate determined by the Committee.  The number of shares reserved for 
issuance hereunder shall be reduced by the largest whole number obtained by 
dividing the monetary value of the units at the commencement of the 
performance period by the market value of a common share at such time, 
provided that such number of shares may again become available for issuance 
under this Program as is provided in Paragraph 5 hereof.

     12.  FOREIGN QUALIFIED BENEFITS.  Benefits under the Program may be granted
to such officers and key employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who are
residing in foreign jurisdictions as the Committee in its sole discretion may
determine from time to time.  The Committee may adopt such supplements to the
Program as may be necessary to comply with the applicable laws of such foreign
jurisdictions and to afford participants favorable treatment under such laws;
provided, however, that no Benefit shall be granted under any such supplement
with terms or conditions which are inconsistent with the provisions as set forth
under the Program.

     13.  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.

          (a)  Each Non-Employee Director shall be granted the following
               Restricted Stock Awards (as defined in paragraph 10):

<PAGE>

                  (i)    1987 GRANT.   Subject to paragraph 13 (f), each person
                         serving as a Non-Employee Director as of June 11, 1987
                         shall receive a Restricted Stock Award on January 1,
                         1988 covering Three Hundred (300) Abbott common shares.

                  (ii)   1990 GRANT.   Each person elected a Non-Employee
                         Director at the annual shareholders meeting in 1990
                         shall receive a Restricted Stock Award on that date
                         covering a number of Abbott common shares determined by
                         the Board of Directors (which number shall be the same
                         for all such directors) not in excess of shares with a
                         fair market value on the date of the award of
                         Thirty-six Thousand Dollars ($36,000).

                  (iii)  INTERIM GRANTS.   Each person elected a Non-Employee
                         Director after June 1987 and prior to April, 1991 who
                         has not previously received an award under this
                         paragraph 13 shall receive a Restricted Stock Award on
                         the later of January 1, 1988 or the date of his
                         election, covering a number of Abbott common shares
                         determined as follows:

                         (A)  If such person is elected prior to April, 1990,
                              the number of shares shall be 300 multiplied by a
                              fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
                              full calendar months remaining from the date of
                              such election to the second Friday in April,
                              1990, and the denominator of which is 36.

                         (B)  If such person is elected after April, 1990 and
                              prior to April, 1991, the number of shares shall
                              be that number determined by the Board under

<PAGE>

                              paragraph 13(a)(ii) multiplied by a fraction, the
                              numerator of which is the number of full calendar
                              months remaining from the date of such election to
                              the second Friday in April, 1993, and the
                              denominator of which is 36.

                         Any fractional shares resulting from these calculations
                         shall be rounded to the next larger whole number.

          (b)  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES.  Subject to paragraph 13(f), as soon as
               practicable following the date of the award the Company shall
               issue certificates ("Certificates") to the Non-Employee Director
               receiving the award, representing the number of common shares
               covered by the award.  At the discretion of the Company, the
               Certificates shall bear legends describing the restrictions on
               such shares imposed by this paragraph 13.

          (c)  RIGHTS.  Upon issuance of the Certificates, the directors in
               whose names they are registered shall, subject to the
               restrictions of this paragraph 13, have all of the rights of a
               shareholder with respect to the shares represented by the
               Certificates, including the right to vote such shares and receive
               case dividends and other distributions thereon.

          (d)  RESTRICTED PERIOD.  The shares covered by awards granted under
               this paragraph 13 shall be subject to the restrictions of this
               paragraph 13 for a period (the "Restricted Period") commencing
               with the date of the award and ending on the earliest of the
               following events:

                    (i)   The date the director terminates or retires from the
                          Board;

                    (ii)  The date the director dies; or

<PAGE>

                    (iii) The date of occurrence of a Change in Control (as
                          defined in paragraph 19(c)).

          (e)  RESTRICTIONS.  All shares covered by awards granted under
               this paragraph 13 shall be subject to the following
               restrictions during the Restricted Period:

                    (i)   The shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred,
                          pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of.

                    (ii)  Any additional common shares of the Company or other
                          securities or property issued with respect to shares
                          covered by awards granted under this paragraph 13 as a
                          result of any stock dividend, stock split or
                          reorganization, shall be subject to the restrictions
                          and other provisions of this paragraph 13.

                    (iii) A director shall not be entitled to receive any
                          shares prior to completion of all actions deemed
                          appropriate by the Company to comply with federal
                          or state securities laws and stock exchange
                          requirements.

               (f)  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION COMPLIANCE.

                    This paragraph 13 shall be contingent on receipt by the
                    Company of a no-action letter from the Securities and
                    Exchange Commission or an opinion from counsel acceptable to
                    the Company to the affect that:

                    (i)  The granting of Restricted Stock Awards to directors
                         under this paragraph 13 shall not disqualify such
                         directors as "disinterested persons" under Rule
                         16b-3(d)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                         and

                    (ii) The addition of this paragraph 13 to the Program need
                         not be approved by the shareholders of the Company to

<PAGE>

                         preserve the Program's exemption under Rule 16b-3 under
                         the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

                    No awards shall be granted under this paragraph 13 until
                    such compliance is achieved.  This paragraph 13 shall be
                    null and void if such compliance is not achieved by March
                    31, 1988.

               (g)  Except in the event of conflict, all provisions of the
                    Program shall apply to this paragraph 13.  In the event of
                    any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this
                    paragraph 13, this paragraph 13 shall control.  Those
                    provisions of paragraph 16 which authorize the Committee to
                    declare outstanding restricted stock awards to be vested and
                    to amend or modify the terms of Benefits shall not apply to
                    awards granted under this paragraph 13.

     14.  NONTRANSFERABILITY.  Except as provided by the Committee, each 
stock option and any other Benefit granted under this Program shall not be 
transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and 
shall be exercisable, during the participant's lifetime, only by the 
participant or the participant's guardian or legal representative. 

     15.  OTHER PROVISIONS.  The award of any Benefit under the Program may also
be subject to other provisions (whether or not applicable to the Benefit awarded
to any other participant) as the Committee determines appropriate, including,
without limitation, provisions for the purchase of common shares under stock
options in installments, provisions for the payment of the purchase price of
shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of the Company
having a then market value equal to the purchase price of such shares,
restrictions on resale or other disposition, such provisions as may be
appropriate to comply with federal or state securities laws and stock exchange
requirements and understandings or conditions as to the participant's employment
in addition to those specifically provided for under the Program.

<PAGE>

     The Committee may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may
adopt, permit a participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, state and
local taxes, including FICA withholding tax, arising in connection with the
following transactions: (a) the exercise of a Non-qualified Stock Option; (b)
the lapse of restrictions on common shares received as a Restricted Stock Award;
or (c) the receipt or exercise of any other Benefit; by electing (i) to have the
Company withhold common shares, (ii) to tender back common shares received in
connection with such Benefit or (iii) to deliver other previously acquired
common shares of the Company having a fair market value approximately equal to
the amount to be withheld.

     16.  TERM OF PROGRAM AND AMENDMENT MODIFICATION.

CANCELLATION OR ACCELERATION OF BENEFITS.  No Benefit shall be granted more than
five (5) years after the date of the approval of this Program by the
shareholders; provided, however, that the terms and conditions applicable to any
Benefits granted prior to such date may at any time be amended, modified or
canceled by mutual agreement between the Committee and the participant or such
other persons as may then have an interest therein, so long as any amendment or
modification does not increase the number of common shares issuable under this
Program; and provided further, that the Committee may, at any time and in its
sole discretion, declare any or all stock options and stock appreciation rights
then outstanding under this Program or the Prior Stock Option Plans to be
exercisable, any or all then outstanding Restricted Stock Awards to be vested,
and any or all then outstanding Performance Units to have been earned, whether
or not such options, rights, awards or units are then otherwise exercisable,
vested or earned.

     17.  AMENDMENT TO PRIOR STOCK OPTION PLANS.  No options or other Benefits
shall be granted under the Prior Stock Option Plans on or after the date of
shareholder approval of this Program.

<PAGE>

     18.  TAXES.  The Company shall be entitled to withhold the amount of any
tax attributable to any amount payable or shares deliverable under the Program
after giving the person entitled to receive such amount or shares notice as far
in advance as practicable, and the Company may defer making payment or delivery
if any such tax may be pending unless and until indemnified to its satisfaction.

     19.  DEFINITIONS.

          (a)  FAIR MARKET VALUE.  The Fair Market Value of the Company's common
               shares at any time shall be determined in such manner as the
               Committee may deem equitable or required by applicable laws or
               regulations; provided, however, that in the case of any Limited
               Stock Appreciation Right (other than a right related to an
               Incentive Stock Option), the Fair Market Value shall be the
               higher of:

                    (i)  The highest daily closing price of the Company's common
                         shares during the sixty (60) day period following
                         Change in Control; or

                    (ii) The highest gross price paid or to be paid for the
                         Company's common shares in any of the transactions
                         described in paragraphs 18(c)(ii) and 18(c)(iii).

          (b)  SUBSIDIARY.  The term "subsidiary" for all purposes other than
               the Incentive Stock Option Plan described in paragraph 6, shall
               mean any corporation, partnership, joint venture or business
               trust, fifty percent (50%) or more of the control of which is
               owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company. 

          (c)  CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have
               occurred on the earliest of the following dates:

<PAGE>

                   (i)   The date any entity or person (including a "group" as
                         defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange
                         Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) shall have become the
                         beneficial owner of, or shall have obtained voting
                         control over thirty percent (30%) or more of the
                         outstanding common shares of the Company; 

                   (ii)  The date the shareholders of the Company approve a
                         definitive agreement (A) to merge or consolidate the
                         Company with or into another corporation, in which the
                         Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation
                         or pursuant to which any common shares of the Company
                         would be converted into cash, securities or other
                         property of another corporation, other than a merger of
                         the Company in which holders of common shares
                         immediately prior to the merger have the same
                         proportionate ownership of common stock of the
                         surviving corporation immediately after the merger as
                         immediately before, or (B) to sell or otherwise dispose
                         of substantially all the assets of the Company; or

                   (iii) The date there shall have been a change in a majority
                         of the Board of Directors of the Company within a
                         twelve (12) month period unless the nomination for
                         election by the Company's shareholders of each new
                         director was approved by the vote of two-thirds of the
                         directors then still in office who were in office at
                         the beginning of the twelve (12) month period.

     20.  ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS. 

          (a)  If the Company shall at any time change the number of issued

<PAGE>

               common shares without new consideration to the Company (such as
               by stock dividends or stock splits), the total number of shares
               reserved for issuance under this Program and the number of shares
               covered by each outstanding Benefit shall be adjusted so that the
               aggregate consideration payable to the Company and the value of
               each such Benefit shall not be changed.  The Committee shall also
               have the right to provide for the continuation of Benefits or for
               other equitable adjustments after changes in the common shares
               resulting from reorganization, sale, merger, consolidation or
               similar occurrence.

          (b)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Program, and without
               affecting number of shares otherwise reserved or available
               hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption
               of Benefits in connection with any merger, consolidation,
               acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such
               terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.

          (c)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this program or the Prior
               Stock Option Plans, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control:

                   (i)   All stock options then outstanding under this Program
                         or the Prior Stock Option Plans shall become fully
                         exercisable as of the date of the Change in Control,
                         whether or not then otherwise exercisable:

                   (ii)  All Stock Appreciation Rights which have been
                         outstanding for at least six (6) months shall become
                         fully exercisable as of the date of the Change in
                         Control, whether or not then otherwise exercisable;

                   (iii) All terms and conditions of all Restricted Stock
                         Awards then outstanding shall be deemed satisfied

<PAGE>

                         as of the date of the Change in Control; and 

                    (iv) All Performance Units then outstanding shall be deemed
                         to have been fully earned and to be immediately
                         payable, in cash, as of the date of the Change in
                         Control.

     21.  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.  The Board of Directors of the
Company may amend the Program from time to time or terminate the Program at any
time, but no such action shall reduce the then existing amount of any
participant's Benefit or adversely change the terms and conditions thereof
without the participant's consent.  However, except for adjustments expressly
provided for herein, no amendment may (i) materially increase the Benefits
accruing to participants, (ii) materially increase the number of shares which
may be issued, or (iii) materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for
participation in the Program.

     22.  SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL.  The Program was adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Company on December 13, 1985.  The Program and any Incentive
Stock Options granted thereunder shall be null and void if shareholder approval
is not obtained within twelve (12) months of the adoption of the Plan by the
Board of Directors.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.3
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                              ABBOTT LABORATORIES
                         1991 INCENTIVE STOCK PROGRAM
                                       
     1.   PURPOSE.  The purpose of the Abbott Laboratories 1991 Incentive 
Stock Program (the "Program") is to attract and retain outstanding 
individuals as directors, officers and other employees of Abbott Laboratories 
(the "Company") and its subsidiaries, and to furnish incentives to such 
persons by providing such persons opportunities to acquire common shares of 
the Company, or monetary payments based on the value of such shares or the 
financial performance of the Company, or both, on advantageous terms as 
herein provided.

     2.   ADMINISTRATION. The Program will be administered by a committee (the
"Committee") of at least two persons which shall be either the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or such other committee
comprised entirely of "disinterested persons" as defined in Rule 16b-3 of the
Securities and Exchange Commission as the Board of Directors may from time to
time designate.  The Committee shall interpret the Program, prescribe, amend and
rescind rules and regulations relating thereto and make all other determinations
necessary or advisable for the administration of the Program.  A majority of the
members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum and all determinations of the
Committee shall be made by a majority of its members.  Any determination of the
Committee under the Program may be made without notice of meeting of the
Committee by a writing signed by a majority of the Committee members

     3.   PARTICIPANTS.  Participants in the Program will consist of such
officers and other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries as the
Committee in its sole discretions may designate from time to time to receive

<PAGE>

Benefits hereunder.  The Committee's designation of a participant in any year
shall not require the Committee to designate such person to receive a Benefit in
any other year.  The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent
in selecting participants and in determining the type and amount of their
respective Benefits, including without limitation (i) the financial condition of
the Company; (ii) anticipated profits for the current or future years; (iii)
contributions of participants to the profitability and development of the
Company; and (iv) other compensation provided to participants.  Non-Employee
Directors shall also be participants in the Program solely for purposes of
receiving Restricted Stock Awards under paragraph 13.  The term "Non-Employee
Director" shall mean a member of the Board of Directors who is not a full-time
employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

     4.   TYPES OF BENEFITS.  Benefits under the Program may be granted in any
one or a combination of (a) Incentive Stock Options; (b) Non-qualified Stock
Options; (c) Stock Appreciation Rights; (d) Limited Stock Appreciation Rights;
(e) Restricted Stock Awards; (f) Performance Units; and (g) Foreign Qualified
Benefits, all as described below and pursuant to the Plans set forth in
paragraphs 6-12 hereof.

     5.   SHARES RESERVED UNDER THE PROGRAM.  There is hereby reserved for
issuance under the Program an aggregate of Five Million (5,000,000) common
shares, which may be newly issued or treasury shares.  The shares hereby
reserved are in addition to the shares previously reserved under the Company's
1977 Incentive Stock Plan, 1981 Incentive Stock Program and 1986 Incentive Stock
Program (the "Prior Stock Option Plans").  Any common shares reserved for
issuance under the Prior Stock Option Plans in excess of the number of shares as
to which options or other Benefits have been awarded on the date of share holder
approval of this Program, plus any such shares as to which options or other

<PAGE>

Benefits granted under the Prior Stock Option Plans my lapse, expire, 
terminate or be canceled after such date, shall also be reserved and 
available for issuance in connection with Benefits under this Program.  All 
of such shares may, but need not, be issued pursuant to the exercise of 
Incentive Stock Options.

     If there is a lapse, expiration, termination or cancellation of any Benefit
granted hereunder without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder,
or if shares are issued under any Benefit and thereafter are reacquired by the
Company pursuant to rights reserved upon the issuance thereof, the shares
subject to or reserved for such Benefit may again be used for new options,
rights or awards of any sort authorized under this Program; provided, however,
that in no event may the number of common shares issued under this Program
exceed the total number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder.

     6.   INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN.  Incentive Stock Options will consist of
options to purchase common shares at purchase prices not less than One Hundred
percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such common shares on the date of
grant.  Incentive Stock Options will be exercisable over not more than ten (10)
years after the date of grant.  In the event of termination of employment for
any reason other than retirement, disability or death, the right of the optionee
to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the
end of the original term of the option or three (3) months after the optionee's
last day of work for the Company and its subsidiaries.  In the event of
termination of employment due to retirement or disability, or if the optionee
should die while employed, the right of the optionee or his or her successor in
interest to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate upon the earlier
of the end of the original term of the option or sixty (60) months after the
date of such retirement, disability or death.  If the optionee should die within
three (3) months after termination of employment for any reason other than
retirement or disability, the right of his or her successor in interest to
exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate upon the earlier of the end


<PAGE>

of the original term of the option or three (3) months after the date of such 
death.  If the optionee should die within sixty (60) months after termination 
of employment due to retirement or disability, the right of his or successor 
in interest to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate upon the 
later of sixty (60) months after the date of such retirement or disability or 
six (6) months after the date of such death, but not later than the end of 
the original term of the option.  The aggregate fair market value (determined 
as of the time the Option is granted) of the common shares with respect to 
which Incentive stock options are exercisable for the first time by any 
individual during any calendar year (under all option plans of the Company 
and its subsidiary corporations) shall not exceed $100,000.  An Incentive 
Stock Option granted to a participant who is subject to Section 16 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may be exercised only after six 
(6) months from its grant date (unless otherwise permitted under Rule 16b-3 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission).

     7.   NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN.  Non-qualified Stock Options will
consist of options to purchase common shares at purchase prices not less than
One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such common shares on the
date of grant.  Non-qualified Stock Options will be exercisable over not more
than ten (10) years after the date of grant.  In the event of termination of
employment for any reason other than retirement, disability or death, the right
of the optionee to exercise a Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate upon
the earlier of the end of the original term of the option or three (3) months
after the optionee's last day of work for the Company and its subsidiaries.  In
the event of termination of employment due to retirement or disability or if the
optionee should die while employed, the right of the optionee or his or her
successor in interest to exercise a Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate
upon the earlier of the end of the original term of the option or sixty (60)
months after the date of such retirement, disability or death.  If the optionee
should die within three (3) months after termination of employment for any
reason other than retirement or disability, the right of his or her successor in
interest to exercise a Non-qualified Stock Option shall terminate upon the
earlier of the end of the original term of the option or three (3) months after
the date of such death.  If the optionee should die within sixty (60) months
after termination of employment due to retirement or disability, the right of

<PAGE>

his or her successor in interest to exercise a Non-qualified Stock Option shall
terminate upon the later of sixty (60) months after the date of such retirement
or disability or six (6) months after the date of such death, but not later than
the end of the original term of the option.  A Non-qualified Stock Option
granted to a participant who is subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, may be exercised only after six (6) months from its
grant date (unless otherwise permitted under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and
Exchange Commission).

     8.   STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLAN.  The Committee may, in its discretion,
grant a Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any stock option granted
hereunder or under the Prior Stock Option Plans.  Such Stock Appreciation Rights
shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Program as the
Committee shall impose from time to time, including the following:         

          (a)  A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with respect to a stock
               option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter up to
               six (6) months prior to its expiration.

          (b)  Stock Appreciation Rights will permit the holder to surrender any
               related stock option or portion thereof which is then exercisable

<PAGE>

               and to elect to receive in exchange therefor cash in an amount
               equal to:

                    (i)  The excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of such
                         election of one common share over the option price
                         multiplied by

                    (ii) The number of shares covered by such option or portion
                         thereof which is so surrendered.

          (c)  A Stock Appreciation Right granted to a participant who is
               subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
               amended, may be exercised only after six (6) months from its
               grant date (unless otherwise permitted under Rule 16b-3 of the
               Securities and Exchange Commission).

          (d)  The Committee shall have the discretion to satisfy a
               participant's right to receive the amount of cash determined
               under subparagraph (b) hereof, in whole or in part, by the
               delivery of common shares valued as of the date of the
               participant's election.

          (e)  A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a participant
               regardless of whether such participant has been granted a Limited
               Stock Appreciation Right with respect to the same stock option. 
               However, a Stock Appreciation Right may not be exercised during
               any period that a Limited Stock Appreciation Right with respect
               to the same stock option may be exercised.

          (f)  In the event of the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the
               number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder shall be 
               reduced by the number of shares covered by the stock option or 
               portion thereof surrendered.

     9.   LIMITED STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS PLAN.  The Committee may, in its
discretion, grant a Limited Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any stock

<PAGE>

option granted hereunder or under the Prior Stock Option Plans.  Such Limited
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such terms and conditions
consistent with the Program as the Committee shall impose from time to time,
including the following:

          (a)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with respect to
               a stock option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter
               up to six (6) months prior to its expiration.

          (b)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right will permit the holder to
               surrender any related stock option or portion thereof which is
               then exercisable and to receive in exchange therefor cash in an
               amount equal to:

                    (i)  The excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of such
                         election of one common share over the option price
                         multiplied by

                    (ii) The number of shares covered by such option or portion
                         thereof which is so surrendered.

          (c)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right granted to a participant who
               is subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
               as amended, may be exercised only after six (6) months from its
               grant date (unless otherwise permitted under Rule 16b-3 of the
               Securities and Exchange Commission) and only during the sixty
               (60) day period commencing with the day following the date of a
               Change in Control.

          (d)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a
               participant regardless of whether such participant has been
               granted a Stock Appreciation Right with respect to the same stock
               option.

<PAGE>

          (e)  In the event of the exercise of a Limited Stock Appreciation
               Right, the number of shares reserved for issuance hereunder shall
               be reduced by the number of shares covered by the stock option or
               portion thereof surrendered.

     10.  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS PLAN.  Restricted Stock Awards will consist of
common shares transferred to participants without other payment therefor as
additional compensation for their services to the Company or one of its
subsidiaries.  Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to such terms and
conditions as the Committee determines appropriate, including, without
limitations, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of such shares and
rights of the Company to reacquire such shares upon termination of the
participant's employment within specified periods.  Subject to such other
restrictions as are imposed by the Committee, the common shares covered by a
Restricted Stock Award granted to a participant who is subject to Section 16 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may be sold or otherwise
disposed of only after six (6) months from the grant date of the award (unless
otherwise permitted under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission).

     11.   PERFORMANCE UNITS PLAN.  Performance Units shall consist of monetary
units granted to participants which may be earned in whole or in part if the
Company achieves certain goals established by the Committee over a designated
period of time, but not in any event more than five (5) years.  The goals
established by the Committee may include earnings per share, return on
shareholder equity, return on average total capital employed, and/or such other
goals as may be established by the Committee in its discretion.  In the event
the minimum corporate goal established by the Committee is not achieved at the
conclusion of a period, no amount shall be paid to or vested in the participant.
In the event the maximum corporate goal is achieved, One Hundred (100%) of the

<PAGE>

monetary value of the Performance Units shall be paid to or vested in the
participants.  Partial achievement of the maximum goal may result in a payment
or vesting corresponding to the degree of achievement.  Payment of an award
earned may be in cash or in common shares or in a combination of both, and may
be made when earned, or vested and deferred, as the Committee in its sole
discretion determines.  Deferred awards shall earn interest on the terms and at
a rate determined by the Committee.  The number of shares reserved for issuance
hereunder shall be reduced by the largest whole number obtained by dividing
monetary value of the units at the commencement of the performance period by the
market value of a common share at such time, provided that such number of shares
may again become available for issuance under this Program as is provided in
Paragraph 5 hereof.

     12.  FOREIGN QUALIFIED BENEFITS.  Benefits under the Program may be granted
to such employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who are residing in
foreign jurisdictions as the Committee in its sole discretion may determine from
time to time.  The Committee may adopt such supplements to the Program as may be
necessary to comply with the applicable laws of such foreign jurisdictions and
to afford participants favorable treatment under such laws; provided, however,
that no Benefit shall be granted under any such supplement with terms or
conditions which are inconsistent with the provisions as set forth under the
Program.

     13.  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.

          (a)  Each person elected a Non-Employee Director at the annual
               shareholders meeting in 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 shall
               receive a restricted Stock Award on that date covering a number
               of common shares with a fair market value on the date of the
               award closest to, but not in excess of, Twenty Thousand Dollars
               ($20,000).

<PAGE>

          (b)  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES.  As soon as practicable following the
               date of the award the Company shall issue certificates
               ("Certificates") to the Non-Employee Director receiving the
               award, representing the number of common shares covered by the
               award.  At the discretion of the Company, the Certificates shall
               bear legends describing the restrictions on such shares imposed
               by this paragraph 13.

          (c)  RIGHTS.  Upon issuance of the Certificates, the directors in
               whose names they are registered shall, subject to the
               restrictions of this paragraph 13, have all of the rights of a
               shareholder with respect to the shares represented by the
               Certificates, including the right to vote such shares and receive
               case dividends and other distributions thereon.

          (d)  RESTRICTED PERIOD.  The shares covered by awards granted under
               this paragraph 13 may not be sold or otherwise disposed of within
               six (6) months following their grant date (unless otherwise
               permitted under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange
               Commission) and in addition shall be subject to the restrictions
               of this paragraph 13 for a period (the "Restricted Period")
               commencing with the date of the award and ending on the earliest
               of the following events:

                    (i)  The date the director terminates or retires from the
                         Board;

                    (ii) The date the director dies; or

                   (iii) The date of occurrence of a Change in Control (as
                         defined in paragraph 19(c)).

               (e)  RESTRICTIONS.  All shares covered by awards granted under

<PAGE>

                    this paragraph 13 shall be subject to the following
                    restrictions during the Restricted Period:

                    (i)  The shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred,
                         pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of.

                   (ii)  Any additional common shares of the Company or other
                         securities or property issued with respect to shares
                         covered by awards granted under this paragraph 13 as a
                         result of any stock dividend, stock split or
                         reorganization, shall be subject to the restrictions
                         and other provisions of this paragraph 13.

                  (iii)  A director shall not be entitled to receive any
                         shares prior to completion of all actions deemed
                         appropriate by the Company to comply with federal
                         or state securities laws and stock exchange
                         requirements.

               (f)  Except in the event of conflict, all provisions of the
                    Program shall apply to this paragraph 13.  In the event of
                    any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this
                    paragraph 13, this paragraph 13 shall control.  Those
                    provisions of paragraph 16 which authorize the Committee to
                    declare outstanding restricted stock awards to be vested and
                    to amend or modify the terms of Benefits shall not apply to
                    awards granted under this paragraph 13.

     14.  NONTRANSFERABILITY.  Except as provided by the Committee, each
stock option and stock appreciation right granted under this Program shall 
not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and 
distribution, and shall be exercisable, during the participant's lifetime, 
only by the participant or the participant's guardian or legal 
representative.  Except as provided by the Committee, a participant's 
interest in a Performance Unit shall not be transferable until payment or 
delivery of the award is made.

     15.  OTHER PROVISIONS.  The award of any Benefit under the Program may also

<PAGE>

be subject to other provisions (whether or not applicable to the Benefit awarded
to any other participant) as the Committee determines appropriate, including,
without limitation, provisions for the purchase of common shares under stock
options in installments, provisions for the payment of the purchase price of
shares under stock options by delivery of other common shares of the Company
having a then market value equal to the purchase price of such shares,
restrictions on resale or other disposition, such provisions as may be
appropriate to comply with federal or state securities laws and stock exchange
requirements and understandings or conditions as to the participant's employment
in addition to those specifically provided for under the Program.

     The Committee may, in its discretion, permit payment of the purchase 
price of shares under stock options by delivery of a properly executed 
exercise notice together with a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker 
to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay 
the purchase price.  To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may enter into 
agreements for coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms.

     The Committee may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may
adopt, permit a participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, state and
local taxes, including FICA withholding tax, arising in connection with the
following transactions: (a) the exercise of a Non-qualified Stock Option; (b)
the lapse of restrictions on common shares received as a Restricted Stock Award;
or (c) the receipt or exercise of any other Benefit; by electing (i) to have the
Company withhold common shares, (ii) to tender back common shares received in
connection with such Benefit or (iii) to deliver other previously acquired
common shares of the Company having a fair market value approximately equal to
the amount to be withheld.

     16.  TERM OF PROGRAM AND AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, 

CANCELLATION OR ACCELERATION OF BENEFITS.  No Benefit shall be granted more 

<PAGE>

than five (5) years after the date of the approval of this Program by the 
shareholders; provided, however, that the terms and conditions applicable to 
any Benefits granted prior to such date may at any time be amended, modified 
or canceled by mutual agreement between the Committee and the participant or 
such other persons as may then have an interest therein, so long as any 
amendment or modification does not increase the number of common shares 
issuable under this Program; and provided further, that the Committee may, at 
any time and in its sole discretion, declare any or all stock options and 
stock appreciation rights then outstanding under this Program or the Prior 
Stock Option Plans to be exercisable, any or all then outstanding Restricted 
Stock Awards to be vested, and any or all then outstanding Performance Units 
to have been earned, whether or not such options, rights, awards or units are 
then otherwise exercisable, vested or earned.

     17.  AMENDMENT TO PRIOR STOCK OPTION PLANS.  No options or other Benefits
shall be granted under the Prior Stock Option Plans on or after the date of
shareholder approval of this Program.

     18.  TAXES.  The Company shall be entitled to withhold the amount of any
tax attributable to any amount payable or shares deliverable under the Program
after giving the person entitled to receive such amount or shares notice as far
in advance as practicable, and the Company may defer making payment or delivery
if any such tax may be pending unless and until indemnified to its satisfaction.

     19.  DEFINITIONS.

          (a)  FAIR MARKET VALUE.  The Fair Market Value of the Company's common
               shares at any time shall be determined in such manner as the
               Committee may deem equitable or required by applicable laws or
               regulations; provided, however, that in the case of any Limited
               Stock Appreciation Right (other than a right related to an

<PAGE>

               Incentive Stock Option), the Fair Market Value shall be the
               higher of:

                    (i)  The highest daily closing price of the Company's common
                         shares during the sixty (60) day period following
                         Change in Control; or

                   (ii)  The highest gross price paid or to be paid for the
                         Company's common shares in any of the transactions
                         described in paragraphs 19(c)(i) and 19(c)(ii).

          (b)  SUBSIDIARY.  The term "subsidiary" for all purposes other than
               the Incentive Stock Option Plan described in paragraph 6, shall
               mean any corporation, partnership, joint venture or business
               trust, fifty percent (50%) or more of the control of which is
               owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.  For Incentive
               Stock Option Plan purposes the term "subsidiary" shall be defined
               as provided in Internal Revenue Code Section 425(f).

          (c)  CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have
               occurred on the earliest of the following dates:

                    (i)  The date any entity or person (including a "group" as
                         defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange
                         Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) shall have become the
                         beneficial owner of, or shall have obtained voting
                         control over thirty percent (30%) or more of the
                         outstanding common shares of the Company; 

                    (ii) The date the shareholders of the Company approve a
                         definitive agreement (A) to merge or consolidate the
                         Company with or into another corporation, in which the

<PAGE>

                         Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation
                         or pursuant to which any common shares of the Company
                         would be converted into cash, securities or other
                         property of another corporation, other than a merger of
                         the Company in which holders of common shares
                         immediately prior to the merger have the same
                         proportionate ownership of common stock of the
                         surviving corporation immediately after the merger as
                         immediately before, or (B) to sell or otherwise dispose
                         of substantially all the assets of the Company; or

                   (iii) The date there shall have been a change in a
                         majority of the Board of Directors of the Company
                         within a twelve (12) month period unless the
                         nomination for election by the Company's
                         shareholders of each new director was approved by
                         the vote of two-thirds of the directors then still
                         in office who were in office at the beginning of
                         the twelve (12) month period.

          (d)  DISABILITY.  The term "disability" for all purposes of the
               Program shall mean the participant's disability as defined in
               subsection 4.1(a) of the Abbott Laboratories Extended Disability
               Plan for twelve (12) consecutive months.


     20.  ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS. 

          (a)  If the Company shall at any time change the number of issued
               common shares without new consideration to the Company (such as
               by stock dividends or stock splits), the total number of shares
               reserved for issuance under this Program and the number of shares
               covered by each outstanding Benefit shall be adjusted so that the
               aggregate consideration payable to the Company and the value of

<PAGE>

               each such Benefit shall not be changed.  The Committee shall also
               have the right to provide for the continuation of Benefits or for
               other equitable adjustments after changes in the common shares
               resulting from reorganization, sale, merger, consolidation or
               similar occurrence.

          (b)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Program, and without
               affecting number of shares otherwise reserved or available
               hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption
               of Benefits in connection with any merger, consolidation,
               acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such
               terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.

          (c)  Subject to the six month holding requirements of paragraphs 6, 7,
               8(c), 9(c), 10 and 11(d) but notwithstanding any other provision
               of this program or the Prior Stock Option Plans, upon the
               occurrence of a Change in Control:

                    (i)  All stock options then outstanding under this Program
                         or the Prior Stock Option Plans shall become fully
                         exercisable as of the date of the Change in Control,
                         whether or not then otherwise exercisable:

                   (ii)  All Stock Appreciation Rights and Limited Stock
                         Appreciation Rights then outstanding shall become fully
                         exercisable as of the date of the Change in Control,
                         whether or not then otherwise exercisable;

                  (iii)  All terms and conditions of all Restricted Stock
                         Awards then outstanding shall be deemed satisfied
                         of the date of the Change in Control; and 

                   (iv)  All Performance Units then outstanding shall be deemed
                         to have been fully earned and to be immediately
                         payable, in cash, as of the date of the Change in
                         Control.

     21.  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.  The Board of Directors of the

<PAGE>

Company may amend the Program from time to time or terminate the Program at any
time, but no such action shall reduce the then existing amount of any
participant's Benefit or adversely change the terms and conditions thereof
without the participant's consent.  Paragraph 13 of the Program may not be
amended more frequently than once every six months other than to comport with
changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the rules
thereunder, and no amendment of the Program shall result in any Committee member
losing his or her status as a "disinterested person" as defined in Rule 16b-3 of
the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any employee benefit plan
of the Company or result in the Program losing its status as a protected plan
under said Rule 16b-3.

     22.  SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL.  The Program was adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Company on February 8, 1991.  The Program and any Benefit
granted thereunder shall be null and void if shareholder approval is not
obtained within twelve (12) months of the adoption of the Program by the Board
of Directors.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.4
<TEXT>

<PAGE>


December 15, 1997                   



K. Frank Austen, M.D.
Brigham & Women's Hospital
Smith Building
Room 638
75 Francis Street
Boston, MA 02115

Dear Frank:

This letter constitutes our agreement with you regarding your service as a 
consultant to Abbott Laboratories.  You agree to provide consulting services 
as requested by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Abbott.

You agree that you will be available for consultation with Abbott personnel 
by means of correspondence and telephone calls and that you will make such 
reports as appear reasonable and necessary.  In addition, at Abbott's 
request, you will be present at our Abbott Park facility or at other 
locations for up to ten (10) days of consulting per year at such times as may 
be mutually agreed upon between you and the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Abbott. 

The effective date of this Agreement shall be April 1, 1998 and it shall 
expire on March 31, 1999.

In consideration for services to be rendered under this Agreement, Abbott 
agrees to pay you compensation at the rate of Fifty Thousand Dollars 
($50,000), $37,500 of which shall be paid on or about July 15th  and the 
remaining $12,500 of which shall be paid on or about January 15th the 
following year.  You will also be reimbursed for reasonable travel and 
accommodation expenses incurred by you in the performance of your services 
under this Agreement. 

Payments shall be made as follows:

a. You may elect in writing for payments to be made in cash or to the "K. F. 
   Austen Grantor Trust" dated November 4, 1988 (your "Secular Trust"). 


<PAGE>

K. Frank Austen
December 15, 1997
Page 2


     Such election shall be irrevocable as to payments made. If you fail to 
     make an election by March 31, 1998 your payments will be made in cash. 

b.   If you elect to have any such payments paid to your Secular Trust, the 
     portion paid to your Secular Trust and the portion paid to you in cash 
     will be determined under subsection 9.2 of the Abbott Laboratories 
     Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan (the "Directors' Fee Plan"). 

c.   If you elect to have any portion of such payments paid to your Secular 
     Trust, the entire amount of the payments covered by such election 
     (including the portion paid to you in cash and the portion paid to your 
     Secular Trust) shall be credited to your "Deferred Fee Trust Account" or 
     "Stock Trust Account" established under subsection 9.3 of the Directors' 
     Fee Plan, in such portions as you elect.  Such elections shall be made 
     in accordance with the terms of the Directors' Fee Plan.  Amounts 
     credited to your "Stock Trust Account" will be converted to "Common 
     Stock Units" under Section 6 of the Directors' Fee Plan based on the 
     closing price of common shares of the Company on the date such amounts 
     are paid to your Secular Trust, as reported on the New York Stock 
     Exchange Composite Reporting System.  Your "Deferred Fee Trust Account" 
     will be subject to the adjustments and shall be credited with the 
     interest specified in subsections 9.4 and 9.6 of the Directors' Fee 
     Plan. Your "Stock Trust Account" will be subject to the adjustments and 
     shall be credited with the fair market value appreciation or 
     depreciation specified in subsections 9.5 and 9.6 of the Directors' Fee 
     Plan.

d.   Any payments credited to your "Deferred Fee Trust Account" and "Stock 
     Trust Account" and the earnings on that portion of any fees or retainer 
     paid to your Secular Trust shall be included in the calculation of any 
     "Guaranteed Rate Payment", "Guaranteed Principal Payment" and "Tax 
     Gross-up Payment" due your secular trust under subsections 9.7, 9.8 and 
     9.9 of the Directors' Fee Plan.

e.   The beneficiary designation filed by you under your Secular Trust shall 
     also control the disposition of any payments under this Agreement which 
     remain in your Secular Trust upon your death.

Any inventions, suggestions, ideas, innovations or reports made by you as a
result of the services performed hereunder, shall be promptly disclosed to and
shall be the sole property of Abbott.  You will cooperate with Abbott in
obtaining patents on any such inventions and shall execute any documents
tendered to convey or perfect Abbott's ownership in such inventions.  You will
assist Abbott 

<PAGE>

K. Frank Austen
December 15, 1997
Page 3


at its expense, in any manner which Abbott deems necessary to obtain, maintain
or defend such patents.

You agree to use Abbott confidential information only for the purposes
contemplated by this Agreement and not to disclose such information to others. 
Your obligations with respect to confidential information shall not apply to
information which is publicly disclosed by Abbott or information in the public
domain.  You agree that you will not knowingly disclose to Abbott any
information which is confidential to any other person or firm.

It is acknowledged that this is an Agreement for you to provide personal
consulting services to Abbott.  As such, Abbott's payment obligations shall
cease to accrue upon your death.  The relationship created by this Agreement
shall be that of an independent contractor and you shall not be an employee of
Abbott for any purpose whatsoever.

If you are in agreement with the terms set forth above, please so indicate by
signing and returning the enclosed copy of this letter and retain the original
for your files.


Very truly yours, 

ABBOTT LABORATORIES

By          
   -----------------------------------
   Duane L. Burnham, Chairman
   And Chief Executive Officer

                                   ACCEPTED:

                                  -------------------------------------    
                                  K. Frank Austen, M.D.

                                   Date:_______________________________ 


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.8
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                          
                        Amended effective September 10, 1993


                ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' FEE PLAN


                                     SECTION 1
                                      PURPOSE

     ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' FEE PLAN - referred to below as
the "Plan" - has been established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES - referred to below as
the "Company" - to attract and retain as members of its Board of Directors
persons who are not full-time employees of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries but whose business experience and judgment are a valuable asset to
the Company and its subsidiaries.

                                     SECTION 2
                                 DIRECTORS COVERED

     As used in the Plan, the term "Director" means any person who is elected to
the Board of Directors of the Company in April, 1962 or at any time thereafter,
and is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

                                     SECTION 3
                             FEES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS

     3.1  Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Four
Thousand One Hundred Sixty-Seven Dollars ($4,167.00) for each calendar month or
portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected a Director)
that he holds such office with the Company.

     3.2  A Director who serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand
Six Hundred Dollars ($1,600.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.

     3.3  A Director who serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Six Hundred
Sixty-Seven Dollars ($667.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.

     3.4  A Director who serves as Chairman of the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Six Hundred
Sixty-Seven Dollars ($667.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.

     3.5  A Director who serves as Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the
Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Six Hundred
Sixty-Seven Dollars ($667.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.

<PAGE>

                                       -2-

     3.6  A Director who serves as Chairman of any other Committee created by
this Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Six
Hundred Sixty-Seven Dollars ($667.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof
(excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he
holds such position.

     3.7  A Director's Deferred Fee Account shall be credited with interest
annually.  During the calendar years 1968 and prior, the rate of interest
credited to deferred fees shall be four (4) percent per annum.  During the
calendar years 1969 through 1992, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees
shall be the average of the prime rates being charged by two largest commercial
banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month coincident with or last
preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited.  During the calendar
years 1993 and subsequent, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall
be equal to:  (a) the average of the prime rates being charged by the two
largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month
coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so
credited;  plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  For purposes of
the provisions of the Plan, the term "deferred fees" shall include "deferred
monthly fees," and "deferred meeting fees," and shall also include any such
interest credited thereon.

                                     SECTION 4
                             PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS' FEES

     4.1  A Director's deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan shall commence
to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of
his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not then serving as
a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if he serves as a
Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65); provided that any Director
may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to receive
current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by
him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in which he files such
notice (or all or any portion of such fees earned by him in the calendar year he
first becomes a Director, if such notice is filed within 30 days of becoming a
Director), in which case such fees or the portion thereof so designated earned
in such calendar years shall not be deferred but shall be paid quarterly as
earned and no interest shall be credited thereon.  Such election may be revoked
or modified by any Director by written notice to the Secretary of the Company as
to fees to be earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in
which he files such notice.

     4.2  After a Director's deferred fees shall have commenced to be payable
pursuant to Paragraph 4.1 they shall be payable in annual installments in the
order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e. the deferred fees for the
earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date provided for in
Section 4.1, the deferred fees for the next earliest year of service as a
Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first
installment, etc.).

     4.3  A Director's deferred fees shall continue to be paid until all
deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been
paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary).

     4.4  Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, if a Director's
service as a Director should terminate for any reason within five (5) years
after the date of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance of such
Director's deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be
paid to such Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date
of such termination.


<PAGE>

                                       -3-


     4.5  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest
of the following dates:

          (i)  The date any entity or person (including a "group" as defined 
               in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
               (the "Exchange Act")) shall have become the beneficial owner 
               of, or shall have obtained voting control over thirty percent 
               (30%) or more of the outstanding common shares of the Company;

          (ii) The date the shareholders of the Company approve a definitive 
               agreement (A) to merge or consolidate the Company with or into 
               another corporation, in which the Company is not the 
               continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which any 
               common shares of the company would be converted into cash, 
               securities or other property of another corporation, other 
               than a merger of the Company in which holders of common shares 
               immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate 
               ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation 
               immediately after the merger as immediately before, or (B) to 
               sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all the assets of 
               the Company; or

          (iii)The date there shall have been a change in a majority of the 
               Board of Directors of the Company within a twelve (12) month 
               period unless the nomination for election by the Company's 
               shareholders of each new director was approved by the vote of 
               two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were in 
               office at the beginning of the twelve (12) month period.

     4.6  The provisions of Paragraphs 4.4 and 4.5 and this Paragraph 4.6 may
not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of the Plan,
during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the
date five (5) years following such Change in Control.


                                     SECTION 5
                           DIRECTORS' RETIREMENT BENEFIT


     5.1  Effective April 30, 1998, each of the persons serving as a Director 
on December 12, 1997 shall be credited with a retirement benefit of $4,167 a 
month for 120 months of continuous service and no additional retirement 
benefits shall accrue under the Plan. Each of the persons serving as a 
Director on December 12, 1997 may elect: (a) to have his or her retirement 
benefit under the Plan treated as provided in Section 5.2 of the Plan; or (b) 
to have the present value of that retirement benefit credited to an unfunded 
phantom stock account and converted into phantom stock units based on the 
closing price of the Company's common stock on April 30, 1998, with those 
phantom stock units then being credited with the same cash and stock 
dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are paid 
on the Company's common stock. The phantom stock units shall be payable to 
the Director in annual payments commencing on the first day of the calendar 
month next following the earlier of the Director's death or termination of 
service as a Director, in an amount determined by the closing price of the 
Company's common stock on the first business day preceding the payment date. 
Unless the retirement benefit is terminated, the annual benefit shall 
continue to be paid on the anniversary of the day on which the first such 
retirement benefit payment was made, until the benefit has been paid for ten 
years, or until the death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If 
a Director should die with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of 
all payments due hereunder, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid to 
the surviving spouse of such Director until all payments due hereunder have 
been made or until the death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.

    5.2  Any person serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 who elects to 
have his or her retirement benefit paid pursuant to this Section 5.2 shall 
receive a monthly benefit equal to $4,167. Payment of the monthly benefit 
shall commence on the first day of the calendar month next following the 
earlier of the Director's death or termination of service as a Director. 
Unless the retirement benefit is terminated, the monthly benefit shall 
continue to be paid on the first day of each calendar month thereafter, until 
the benefit has been paid for one hundred and twenty (120) months, or until 
the death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director 
should die with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all 
payments due hereunder, the monthly benefit shall continue to the surviving 
spouse of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or 
until the death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.

    5.3  Directors who retired on or before December 12, 1997 will receive 
the form and amount of retirement benefit payable under the terms of the Plan 
in effect at the time of their retirement.


<PAGE>

                                       -4-

     5.4  Each Director who is granted a retirement benefit hereunder shall make
him or herself available for such consultation with the Board of Directors or
any committee or member thereof, as may be reasonably requested from time to
time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, following such Director's
termination of service as a Director.  The Company shall reimburse each such
Director for all reasonable travel, lodging and subsistence expenses incurred by
the Director at the request of the Company in rendering such consultation.  The
Company may terminate the retirement benefit if the Director should fail to
render such consultation, unless prevented by disability or other reason beyond
the Director's control.

     5.5  It is recognized that during a Director's period of service as a
Director and as a consultant hereunder, a Director will acquire knowledge of the
affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, the disclosure of which would be
contrary to the best interests of the Company.  Accordingly, the Company may
terminate the retirement benefit if, without the express consent of the Company,
the Director accepts election to the Board of Directors of, acquires a
partnership or proprietary interest in, or renders services as an employee or
consultant to, any business entity which is engaged in substantial competition
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

     5.6  An individual will be considered a Director's "surviving spouse" for
purposes of this Section 5 only if the Director and such individual were married
in a religious or civil ceremony recognized under the laws of the state where
the marriage was contracted and the marriage remained legally effective at the
date of the Director's death.

                                     SECTION 6
                          CONVERSION TO COMMON STOCK UNITS

     6.1  Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by written notice
filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of
deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid, transferred from the
Director's Deferred Fee Account to a Stock Account maintained on his or her
behalf pursuant to paragraph 9.3.  Any election as to a portion of such fees
shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be applied to
all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to all deferred
fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the Director.  A
Director may make no more than one election under this paragraph 6.l in any
calendar year.  All such elections may apply only to deferred fees for which an
election has not previously been made and shall be irrevocable.

     6.2  Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the
Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees earned subsequent to
the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account established under this
Section 6. Fees covered by such election shall be credited to such account at
the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which, such fees are earned.  Such
election may be revoked or modified by such Director, by written notice filed
with the Secretary of the Company, as to deferred fees to be earned in calendar
years subsequent to the calendar year such notice is filed, but shall be
irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior to such year.

<PAGE>

                                       -5-

     6.3  Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under paragraph 6.1 shall be
converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the
closing price of common shares of the Company on the date notice of election
under paragraph 6.1 is received by the Company (or the next business day, if
there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Reporting System.  Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under
paragraph 6.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred
fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company as of the
last business day of the calendar quarter for which the credit is made, as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. 

     6.4  Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with the same cash and stock
dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are received
by one common share of the Company.  All cash dividends and other cash
distributions credited to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional
Common Stock Units by dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing
price of common shares of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or
distribution, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting
System.

     6.5  The value of the Common Stock Units credited each Director shall be
paid the Director in cash on the dates specified in paragraph 4.2 (or, if
applicable, paragraph 4.4).  The amount of each payment shall be determined by
multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified in paragraph
4.2 (or, if applicable, paragraph 4.4) by the closing price of common shares of
the Company on the day prior to that date (or the next preceding business day if
there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Reporting System.


                                     SECTION 7
                                   MISCELLANEOUS

     7.1  Each Director or former Director entitled to payment of deferred fees
hereunder, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named
contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director's fees earned by him
and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or
all of such deferred Director's fees.  Each designation will revoke all prior
designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be in form
prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Director
or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during his
lifetime.  If a deceased Director or former Director shall have failed to name a
beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by a
deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all
the Director's or former Director's deferred Directors' fees, the Company, in
its discretion, may direct payment in a single sum of any remaining deferred
Directors' fees to either:

          (a)  any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the 
               surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and in 
               such proportions as the Company determines; or

          (b)  the legal representative or representatives of the estate of 
               the last to die of the Director or former Director and his 
               last surviving beneficiary.

The person or persons to whom any deceased Director's or former Director's
deferred Directors' fees are payable under this paragraph will be referred to as
his "beneficiary."

     7.2  Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of any person shall
not be construed to confer any right on the part of such person to be nominated
for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company, or to be reelected to
the Board of Directors.

<PAGE>

                                       -6-


     7.3  Payment of deferred Directors' fees will be made only to the person
entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and deferred
Directors' fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of
persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold,
transferred or assigned.  When a person entitled to a payment under the Plan is
under legal disability or, in the Company's opinion, is in any way incapacitated
so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the Company may direct that
payment be made to such person's legal representative, or to a relative or
friend of such person for his benefit.  Any payment made in accordance with the
preceding sentence shall be in complete discharge of the Company's obligation to
make such payment under the Plan.

     7.4  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company under the
terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of
the Board of Directors then in office.


                                     SECTION 8
                            AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE

     While the Company expects to continue the Plan, it must necessarily
reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at
any time; provided, however, that any amendment or discontinuance of the Plan
shall be prospective in operation only, and shall not affect the payment of any
deferred Directors' fees theretofore earned by any Director, or the conditions
under which any such fees are to be paid or forfeited under the Plan, unless the
Director affected shall expressly consent thereto.

                                     SECTION 9
                         ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF DEFERRED FEES

     9.1  By written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company prior to
calendar years beginning after December 31, 1988 (or, for the calendar year he
first becomes a Director within 30 days of becoming a Director), a Director may
elect to receive all or any portion of his deferred fees earned in such calendar
years in a lump sum in accordance with the provisions of this Section 9.  An
election under this subsection 9.1 may be revoked or modified by the Director by
written notice to the Secretary of the Company as to deferred fees earned under
Section 3 in calendar years beginning after the calendar year in which he files
such notice. Any amounts that were deferred for calendar years beginning before
January 1, 1989 shall automatically be paid as provided in this Section 9.

     9.2  If payment of a Director's deferred fees is made pursuant to paragraph
9.1, a portion of such fees shall be paid in cash for the Director directly to a
"Grantor Trust" established by the Director, provided such trust is in a form
which the Company determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached
to this plan as Exhibit A; and the balance of the deferred fees shall be paid in
cash directly to the Director, provided that the payment made directly to the
Director shall approximate the aggregate federal, state and local individual
income taxes attributable to the deferred fees paid pursuant to this paragraph
9.2.

     9.3  The Company will establish and maintain four separate accounts in the
name of each Director, "a Deferred Fee Account," a "Deferred Fee Trust Account",
a "Stock Account" and a "Stock Trust Account."  The Deferred Fee Account shall
reflect the deferred fees and interest to be credited to a Director pursuant to
Section 3.  The Deferred Fee Trust Account shall reflect any deferred fees paid
in cash to a Director (including amounts paid to a Director's Grantor Trust and
allocated to the deferred account maintained thereunder) pursuant to paragraph
9.2 and any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 9.4.  The Stock Account shall
reflect the deferred fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 6
and any adjustments made pursuant to that Section.  The Stock Trust Account
shall reflect deferred fees that have been converted to Common Stock Units under
Section 6 and paid in cash 

<PAGE>

                                       -7-

to a Director (including amounts paid to a Director's Grantor Trust and 
allocated to the stock account maintained thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 
9.2 and any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 9.5.  The Accounts 
established pursuant to this paragraph 9.3 are for the convenience of the 
administration of the plan and no trust relationship with respect to such 
Accounts is intended or should be implied.


     9.4  As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each
Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account as follows:

          (a)  FIRST, charge an amount equal to the product of: (i)  any 
               payments made to the Director during that year from the 
               deferred account maintained under his or her Grantor Trust 
               (other than distributions of trust earnings in excess of the 
               Net Interest Accrual authorized by the administrator of the 
               trust to provide for the Tax Gross Up under paragraph 9.9 
               below); multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which 
               is the balance in the Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account as 
               of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of 
               which is the balance in the deferred account maintained under 
               the Director's Grantor Trust (as determined by the 
               administrator of the trust) as of that same date;

          (b)  NEXT, credit an amount equal to the deferred fees that have 
               not been converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that 
               year to the Director (including the amount paid to the 
               Director's Grantor Trust and allocated to the deferred account 
               maintained thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 9.2; and

          (c)  FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Interest Accrual earned 
               for that year pursuant to paragraph 9.6.

     9.5  As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each
Director's Stock Trust Account as follows:

          (a)  FIRST, charge an amount equal to the product of: (i) any 
               payments made to the Director during that year from the stock 
               account maintained under his or her Grantor Trust (other than 
               distributions of trust earnings authorized by the 
               administrator of the trust to provide for the Tax Gross Up 
               under paragraph 9.9 below); multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the 
               numerator of which is the balance in the Director's Stock 
               Trust Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the 
               denominator of which is the balance in the stock account 
               maintained under the Director's Grantor Trust (as determined 
               by the administrator of the trust) as of that same date;

          (b)  NEXT, credit an amount equal to the deferred fees that have 
               been converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year 
               to the Director (including the amount paid to the Director's 
               Grantor Trust and allocated to the stock account maintained 
               thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 9.2; and

          (c)  FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments 
               to be made for that year pursuant to paragraph 9.6.

     9.6  As of the end of each calendar year, a Director's Deferred Fee 
Trust Account shall be credited with interest at the rate described in 
paragraph 3.7. Any amount so credited shall be referred to as a Director's 
"Interest Accrual." As of that same date, a Director's Stock Trust Account 
shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph 6.4, and shall also be adjusted to 
reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of the Company's 
common stock determined in accordance with paragraph 6.5.  Such adjustments 
shall be referred to as "Book Value Adjustments."

<PAGE>

                                       -8-



     9.7  In addition to any fees earned by a Director under Section 3 of this
plan or paid under paragraphs 4.1 or 9.1 the Company shall also make a payment
to a Director's Grantor Trust (a "Guaranteed Rate Payment"), to be credited to
the deferred account maintained thereunder, for any year in which the net income
credited to the deferred account maintained under such trust does not equal or
exceed the Director's Net Interest Accrual for that year.  A Director's "Net
Interest Accrual" for a year is an amount equal to: (a) the Interest Accrual
credited to the Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account for that year; less (b)
the product of (i) the amount of such Interest Accrual, multiplied by (ii) the
aggregate of the federal, state and local individual income tax rates
(determined in accordance with paragraph 9.10).  The Guaranteed Rate Payment
shall equal the difference between the Director's Net Interest Accrual and the
net income credited to the deferred account maintained under the Director's
Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within 90 days of the end of that
year.

     9.8  The Company shall also make a payment to a Director's Grantor Trust (a
"Guaranteed Principal Payment"), to be credited to the stock account maintained
thereunder, to the extent the that the balance in the stock account as of the
end of any calendar year is less than 75 percent of the balance of the
Director's Stock Trust Account (net of federal, state and local income taxes) as
of that same date.  For the calendar year in which the last installment
distribution is made from the Director's Grantor Trust, the payment made under
this paragraph 9.8 shall equal the amount, if any, needed to increase the fair
market value of the stock account maintained under the Director's Grantor Trust;
such that if a distribution of the stock account were then made to the Director,
the Director would receive the same amount he or she would have received (net of
federal, state and local income taxes) if his or her Stock Trust Account were to
be distributed on that same date with the deferred fees that had been allocated
to that Account taxed at the federal, state and local income tax rates in effect
on the date the fees were credited to the Account and the balance of the Account
taxed at the federal, state and local income tax rates in effect on the date of
the distribution.  Payments required under this paragraph 9.8 shall be made
within 90 days of the end of the calendar year, except the last payment which
shall be made not later than the due date of the last installment distribution
from the Director's Grantor Trust.

     9.9  In addition to the fees provided under Section 3, each Director (or,
if the Director is deceased, the beneficiary designated under the Director's
Grantor Trust) shall be entitled to a Tax Gross Up payment for each year there
is a balance in his or her Deferred Fee Trust Account or Stock Trust Account. 
The "Tax Gross Up" shall approximate: (a) the amount necessary to compensate the
Director (or beneficiary) for the net increase in his or her federal, state and
local income taxes as a result of the inclusion in the Director's (or
beneficiary's) taxable income of the income of his or her Grantor Trust and any
Guaranteed Rate and Guaranteed Principal Payments for that year; less (b) any
distribution to the Director (or beneficiary) of his or her Grantor Trust's net
earnings for that year; plus (c) an amount necessary to compensate the Director
(or beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a
result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made
pursuant to this paragraph 9.9.

     9.10 For purposes of this Section, a Director's federal income tax rate
shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax
in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Section is to
be made and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal
rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the
Director's residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal
tax benefits. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is not a
citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates shall be
deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on the
Director's benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor Trust.


<PAGE>


                                          
                                      Exhibit A
                                          
                                          
                        IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT


     THIS AGREEMENT, made this __________day of_________________, 198_, by and
between__________________ of________________, ___________ (the "grantor"), and
The Northern Trust Company, located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the
"trustee"),


                                  WITNESSETH THAT:

     WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold
certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories
Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;

     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:

                                     ARTICLE I
                                    Introduction

     I-1.  NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the "trust")
may be referred to as the "___________________ 1988 Grantor Trust."

     I-2.  THE TRUST FUND.  The "trust fund" as at any date means all property
then held by the trustee under this agreement.

     I-3.  STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is
intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal
Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.

     I-4.  THE ADMINISTRATOR.  Abbott Laboratories ("Abbott") shall act as the
"administrator" of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and
duties under this agreement as described below.  Abbott will certify to the
trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of
Abbott as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate
received without further inquiry or verification.

     I-5.  ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the
"trustee" hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or
the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the
investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.

                                     ARTICLE II
                           DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND

     II-1.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The administrator shall maintain two separate
accounts under the trust, a "deferred account" and a "stock account." Funds
delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee
as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the
administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such
account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and
realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized
losses for the year.  The trustee shall be required to make separate investments
of the trust fund for the accounts, and may not administer and invest all funds
delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.

<PAGE>

                                       -2-


     II-2.  DISTRIBUTIONS PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR'S DEATH. Principal and
accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the
grantor's termination of service as a Director of Abbott (the grantor's
"settlement date"); provided that, each year the administrator may direct the
trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund
for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust. 
The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor's settlement date. 
Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the trust fund to the grantor, if then
living, in a series of annual installments, commencing on the first day of the
month next following the later of the grantor's settlement date or the date the
grantor attains age 65 years.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the
number of installment distributions and the amount of each installment
distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected
in relying on such information received from the administrator.

     II-3.  DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER THE GRANTOR'S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to
time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or
successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the
principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof
shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor's
spouse, in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor's death. 
If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution, any amounts
remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump
sum.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing
and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the  administrator
during the grantor's lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of
distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor
fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor's death,
the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the
executor or administrator of the grantor's estate.

     II-4.  FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution
hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee's opinion, is in any way
incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the
trustee may make such distribution to such person's legal representative, or to
a relative or friend of such person for such person's benefit.  Any distribution
made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete
discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.

     II-5.  PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the
last to die of the grantor and the grantor's descendants living on the date of
this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance
in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.

                                    ARTICLE III
                            MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND

     III-1.  GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund,
have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided
elsewhere in this agreement or by law:

     (a)  Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, 
          contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, 
          and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, 
          for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the 
          trustee decides.

     (b)  To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; 
          and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without 
          distinction between principal and income, in common stock of Abbott 
          Laboratories, or in obligations of the United States Government and 
          its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of 
          the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust 
          fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such 
          obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the 

<PAGE>

                                       -3-


          trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or 
          lack of diversification or marketability.

     (c)  To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department 
          of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and 
          to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit 
          bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.

     (d)  To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in 
          any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or 
          administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust 
          funds.

     (e)  To borrow from anyone, with the administrator's approval, such sum 
          or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to 
          carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the 
          trust fund as security.

     (f)  To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without 
          liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery 
          thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent 
          jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.

     (g)  To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection 
          with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee 
          shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the 
          trustee's satisfaction.

     (h)  To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.

     (i)  To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join 
          in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, 
          consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or 
          other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to 
          exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.

     (j)  To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a 
          depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the 
          trust relationship.

     (k)  To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or 
          wholly or partly in kind.

     (l)  To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer 
          making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its 
          satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any 
          payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing 
          authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee 
          considers necessary for its Protection.

     (m)  To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the 
          grantor's estate or the trustee or other legal representative of 
          any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a 
          beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, 
          shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any 
          loss that may result.

     (n)  To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation 
          qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special 
          trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as 
          to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except 
          as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing 
          instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, 
          discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for 
          any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the 
          appointing instrument.

<PAGE>

                                       -4-

     (o)  To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever 
          located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each 
          such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and 
          discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.

     (p)  To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to 
          delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, 
          and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from 
          acting on the advice of Persons so employed without court action.

     (q)  To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee's judgment 
          are appropriate for the proper management, investment and 
          distribution of the trust fund.

     III-2.  PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is
not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to
time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor's interest in the trust
shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder,
including principal and accumulated income.

     III-3.  STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the
administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each
beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or
series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all
investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the
trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value
thereof at the end of such period.

     III-4.  COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and
expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to
the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other
persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the
sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust
fund.

                                     ARTICLE IV
                                 GENERAL PROVISIONS

     IV-1.  INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other
persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or
other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred,
alienated, assigned or encumbered.

     IV-2.  DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the
trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the
trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.

     IV-3.  TRUSTEE'S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed
on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not
obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust
are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of
any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any
distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring
as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be
liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or
knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.

     IV-4.  GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee's exercise or non-exercise of its
powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one
shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property
delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting
according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the
trustee.

<PAGE>

                                       -5-

     IV-5.  WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be
waived by the Person entitled to such notice.

     IV-6.  CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the
interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all
questions relating to the management, administration, investment and
distribution of the trust hereby created.

     IV-7.  SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled
to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives,
and on the trustee and its successors.

                                     ARTICLE V
                                 CHANGES IN TRUSTEE

     V-1.  RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any
time by giving thirty days' advance written notice to the administrator and the
grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the
trustee and the grantor.


     V-2.  APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any
vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the
successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor,
if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or
distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as
defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).

     V-3.  DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A
trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator
and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the
date of its last account.  Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to
the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any
instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all
acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each
successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if
originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for
any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the
administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the
property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for
so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor
trustee.

                                     ARTICLE VI
                             AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     VI-1.  AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be
amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a
majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions
hereunder, except as follows:

     (a)  The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed 
          substantially without its consent.

     (b)  This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.

     VI-2.  TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights,
titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the
trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in
effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as
provided in Article II.

<PAGE>

                                       -6-


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this
agreement as of the day and year first above written.

          ____________________________________________
          Grantor

               The Northern Trust Company, as Trustee


          By ________________________________________ 
   
            Its______________________________________  
     

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.9
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.9
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

ABBOTT LABORATORIES 1996 INCENTIVE STOCK PROGRAM                    EXHIBIT 10.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  1.  PURPOSE.  The  purpose of  the  Abbott Laboratories  1996  Incentive Stock
Program (the "Program") is to attract and retain outstanding directors, officers
and other employees of Abbott Laboratories (the "Company") and its subsidiaries,
and to furnish incentives to such persons by providing opportunities to  acquire
common  shares of the Company,  or monetary payments based  on the value of such
shares or the  financial performance of  the Company, or  both, on  advantageous
terms as herein provided and to further align such persons' interests with those
of  the Company's other  shareholders through compensation that  is based on the
value of the Company's common shares.
 
  2. ADMINISTRATION.  The  Program will  be  administered by  a  committee  (the
"Committee")  of at  least two  persons which  shall be  either the Compensation
Committee of  the Board  of Directors  of the  Company or  such other  committee
comprised  entirely  of persons  who are  both:  (i) "disinterested  persons" as
defined in  Rule 16b-3  of  the Securities  and  Exchange Commission;  and  (ii)
"outside directors" as defined under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
of  1986, as amended; or any successor  provision, as the Board of Directors may
from time  to  time  designate.  The  Committee  shall  interpret  the  Program,
prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating thereto and make all
other  determinations  necessary  or  advisable for  the  administration  of the
Program. A majority of  the members of the  Committee shall constitute a  quorum
and  all determinations  of the  Committee shall  be made  by a  majority of its
members. Any  determination of  the  Committee under  the  Program may  be  made
without  notice of meeting  of the Committee by  a writing signed  by all of the
Committee members. The Committee may, from time to time, delegate any or all  of
its  duties, powers  and authority  to any officer  or officers  of the Company,
except to the extent  such delegation would be  inconsistent with Rule 16b-3  of
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  or  other  applicable  law,  rule or
regulation. The Chief  Executive Officer of  the Company may,  on behalf of  the
Committee,  grant stock options  and restricted stock  awards under the Program,
other than to persons subject  to Section 16 of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934.  All such grants by  the Chief Executive Officer  must be reported to, and
ratified by,  the Committee  within twelve  months  of the  grant date  but,  if
ratified, shall be effective as of the grant date.
 
  3. PARTICIPANTS. Participants in the Program will consist of such officers and
other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries as the Committee in its sole
discretion  may designate from  time to time to  receive Benefits hereunder. The
Committee's designation  of a  participant in  any year  shall not  require  the
Committee  to designate such person to receive  a Benefit in any other year. The
Committee shall  consider  such  factors  as it  deems  pertinent  in  selecting
participants  and  in  determining  the  type  and  amount  of  their respective
Benefits, including  without  limitation  (i) the  financial  condition  of  the
Company;  (ii)  anticipated  profits  for the  current  or  future  years; (iii)
contributions of  participants  to  the profitability  and  development  of  the
Company;  (iv) prior awards to participants; and (v) other compensation provided
to participants.  Non-Employee  Directors  shall also  be  participants  in  the
Program solely for purposes of receiving Restricted Stock Awards under paragraph
13  and Non-qualified Stock  Options under paragraph  14. The term "Non-Employee
Director" shall mean a member of the  Board of Directors who is not a  full-time
employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
  4.  TYPES OF BENEFITS. Benefits under the Program may be granted in any one or
a combination of (a) Incentive  Stock Options; (b) Non-qualified Stock  Options;
(c)  Stock  Appreciation  Rights;  (d) Limited  Stock  Appreciation  Rights; (e)
Restricted Stock  Awards;  (f) Performance  Awards;  and (g)  Foreign  Qualified
Benefits, all as described below.
 
  5.  SHARES RESERVED UNDER  THE PROGRAM. There is  hereby reserved for issuance
under the Program: (i) an aggregate  of Five Million (5,000,000) common  shares;
plus  (ii) an authorization for each  calendar year (the "Annual Authorization")
from and including  1996, of  seven-tenths of one  percent (0.7%)  of the  total
common  shares of the Company issued and outstanding as of the first day of such
calendar year; which may be newly  issued or treasury shares. The shares  hereby
reserved  are in addition to the  shares previously reserved under the Company's
1981 Incentive Stock Program,  1986 Incentive Stock  Program and 1991  Incentive
Stock  Program (the "Prior  Programs"). Any common  shares reserved for issuance
under the Prior Programs in excess of  the number of shares as to which  options
or  other Benefits have been awarded on the date of shareholder approval of this
Program, plus any  such shares  as to which  options or  other Benefits  granted
under  the Prior Programs may lapse, expire, terminate or be canceled after such
date, shall  also be  reserved and  available for  issuance in  connection  with
Benefits  under this Program.  Any common shares reserved  under the Program for
any calendar year  under an Annual  Authorization as to  which options or  other
Benefits  have not  been awarded as  of the end  of such calendar  year shall be
available for issuance in connection with Benefits granted in subsequent years.
 
If there is  a lapse,  expiration, termination  or cancellation  of any  Benefit
granted  hereunder without the issuance of shares or payment of cash thereunder,
or if shares are issued under any  Benefit and thereafter are reacquired by  the
Company  pursuant to  rights reserved upon  the issuance thereof,  or shares are
reacquired pursuant to the payment of  the purchase price of shares under  stock
options by delivery of other common shares of the Company, the shares subject to
or  reserved  for such  Benefit, or  so reacquired,  may again  be used  for new
options, rights or awards of any  sort authorized under this Program;  provided,
however,  that in  no event may  the number  of common shares  issued under this
Program, and not
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
reacquired by the Company pursuant to rights reserved upon the issuance  thereof
or  pursuant to the payment of the  purchase price of shares under stock options
by delivery of other common  shares of the Company,  exceed the total number  of
shares reserved for issuance hereunder.
 
  6. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. Incentive Stock Options will consist of options to
purchase  common shares  at purchase  prices not  less than  One Hundred percent
(100%) of the Fair Market Value of such  common shares on the date of grant.  An
Incentive  Stock Option will not be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10)
years from the  date such  option is  granted. In  the event  of termination  of
employment  for any reason other than retirement, disability or death, the right
of the optionee to exercise an  Incentive Stock Option shall terminate upon  the
earlier  of the end of the original term of the option or three (3) months after
the optionee's last day  of work for  the Company and  its subsidiaries. In  the
event  of termination of employment  due to retirement or  disability, or if the
optionee should die  while employed, the  right of  the optionee or  his or  her
successor in interest to exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall terminate upon
the  end of the original  term of the option. If  the optionee should die within
three (3)  months after  termination of  employment for  any reason  other  than
retirement  or disability,  the right  of his  or her  successor in  interest to
exercise an Incentive Stock Option shall  terminate upon the earlier of the  end
of  the original term of the  option or three (3) months  after the date of such
death. To the extent the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the  time
the  Option is granted) of the common shares with respect to which any Incentive
Stock Option is  exercisable for  the first time  by any  individual during  any
calendar  year  (under  all  option  plans of  the  Company  and  its subsidiary
corporations) exceeds $100,000, the excess  shall be treated as a  Non-qualified
Stock  Option. An Incentive  Stock Option shall be  exercisable as determined by
the Committee, but in no event earlier than six (6) months from its grant date.
 
  7. NON-QUALIFIED STOCK  OPTIONS. Non-qualified Stock  Options will consist  of
options  to purchase common shares at purchase  prices not less than One Hundred
percent (100%) of the  Fair Market Value  of such common shares  on the date  of
grant. A Non-qualified Stock Option will not be exercisable after the expiration
of  ten  (10) years  from  the date  such  option is  granted.  In the  event of
termination of employment for  any reason other  than retirement, disability  or
death,  the right of the optionee to exercise a Non-qualified Stock Option shall
terminate upon the  earlier of the  end of the  original term of  the option  or
three  (3) months after the optionee's last day  of work for the Company and its
subsidiaries. In the  event of termination  of employment due  to retirement  or
disability,  or if  the optionee  should die  while employed,  the right  of the
optionee or his or her successor  in interest to exercise a Non-qualified  Stock
Option  shall terminate upon the end of the  original term of the option. If the
optionee should die within three (3) months after termination of employment  for
any  reason  other  than retirement  or  disability,  the right  of  his  or her
successor in interest to exercise  a Non-qualified Stock Option shall  terminate
upon  the earlier of  the end of  the original term  of the option  or three (3)
months after  the date  of such  death. A  Non-qualified Stock  Option shall  be
exercisable as determined by the Committee, but in no event earlier than six (6)
months from its grant date.
 
  8.  STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.  The Committee may, in  its discretion, grant a
Stock Appreciation Right to the holder of any stock option granted hereunder  or
under  the Prior  Programs. Such Stock  Appreciation Rights shall  be subject to
such terms and  conditions consistent with  the Program as  the Committee  shall
impose from time to time, including the following:
 
    (a) A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted with respect to a stock option
  at  the time of its grant or at any time thereafter up to six (6) months prior
  to its expiration.
 
    (b) Stock  Appreciation  Rights will  permit  the holder  to  surrender  any
  related stock option or portion thereof which is then exercisable and to elect
  to receive in exchange therefor cash in an amount equal to:
 
      (i)  The excess of the  Fair Market Value on the  date of such election of
    one common share over the option price multiplied by
 
      (ii) The number of shares covered by such option or portion thereof  which
    is so surrendered.
 
    (c)  A Stock Appreciation Right  granted to a participant  who is subject to
  Section 16  of  the  Securities Exchange  Act  of  1934, as  amended,  may  be
  exercised  only after six (6) months from its grant date (unless such exercise
  would not affect the exemption under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange
  Commission).
 
    (d) A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to a participant regardless of
  whether such participant has been  granted a Limited Stock Appreciation  Right
  with respect to the same stock option. However, a Stock Appreciation Right may
  not  be exercised  during any period  that a Limited  Stock Appreciation Right
  with respect to the same stock option may be exercised.
 
    (e) In the event of the exercise  of a Stock Appreciation Right, the  number
  of  shares reserved for issuance  hereunder shall be reduced  by the number of
  shares covered by the stock option or portion thereof surrendered.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  9. LIMITED STOCK APPRECIATION  RIGHTS. The Committee  may, in its  discretion,
grant  a Limited  Stock Appreciation  Right to  the holder  of any  stock option
granted hereunder or under the  Prior Programs. Such Limited Stock  Appreciation
Rights shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Program
as the Committee shall impose from time to time, including the following:
 
    (a)  A Limited  Stock Appreciation  Right may be  granted with  respect to a
  stock option at the time of its grant or at any time thereafter up to six  (6)
  months prior to its expiration.
 
    (b)  A Limited Stock Appreciation Right  will permit the holder to surrender
  any related stock option or portion  thereof which is then exercisable and  to
  receive in exchange therefor cash in an amount equal to:
 
      (i)  The excess of the  Fair Market Value on the  date of such election of
    one common share over the option price multiplied by
 
      (ii) The number of shares covered by such option or portion thereof  which
    is so surrendered.
 
    (c)  A  Limited Stock  Appreciation Right  granted to  a participant  who is
  subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  may
  be  exercised  only after  six (6)  months  from its  grant date  (unless such
  exercise would not affect the exemption under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and
  Exchange Commission) and only during the  sixty (60) day period commencing  on
  the  later of: (i) the day following the  date of a Change in Control; or (ii)
  the first date on which such exercise would be exempt under Rule 16b-3 of  the
  Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
    (d)  A  Limited Stock  Appreciation Right  may be  granted to  a participant
  regardless of whether such participant  has been granted a Stock  Appreciation
  Right with respect to the same stock option.
 
    (e)  In the event of the exercise of a Limited Stock Appreciation Right, the
  number of  shares reserved  for issuance  hereunder shall  be reduced  by  the
  number of shares covered by the stock option or portion thereof surrendered.
 
  10.  RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS.  Restricted Stock Awards  will consist of common
shares transferred to participants without other payment therefor as  additional
compensation  for  their services  to the  Company or  any of  its subsidiaries.
Restricted Stock Awards granted under this paragraph 10 shall be satisfied  from
the  Company's  available  treasury  shares. Restricted  Stock  Awards  shall be
subject to such terms  and conditions as  the Committee determines  appropriate,
including,  without limitation, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of
such shares and rights of the Company to reacquire such shares upon  termination
of  the participant's employment within specified periods. Subject to such other
restrictions as are  imposed by the  Committee, the common  shares covered by  a
Restricted  Stock Award granted to a participant who is subject to Section 16 of
the Securities  Exchange Act  of 1934,  as  amended, may  be sold  or  otherwise
disposed  of only after six (6) months from  the grant date of the award (unless
such sale would not affect the exemption under Rule 16b-3 of the Securities  and
Exchange  Commission). No  more than  ten percent (10%)  of the  total number of
shares available for  grant in  any calendar year  may be  issued as  Restricted
Stock Awards under paragraphs 10 and 13 in that year.
 
  11. PERFORMANCE AWARDS. Performance Awards in the form of Performance Units or
Performance Shares may be granted to any participant in the Program. Performance
Units  shall consist of monetary awards which may  be earned in whole or in part
if the  Company achieves  certain  goals established  by  the Committee  over  a
designated  period of time. Performance Shares shall consist of common shares or
awards denominated in common shares which may  be earned in whole or in part  if
the  Company  achieves  certain  goals  established  by  the  Committee  over  a
designated period of time. The goals established by the Committee shall be based
on any one, or combination of, earnings  per share, return on equity, return  on
assets,  total shareholder return, net operating  income, cash flow, increase in
revenue, economic value added,  increase in share price  or cash flow return  on
investment.  Partial  achievement of  the  goal(s) may  result  in a  payment or
vesting corresponding to the degree of  achievement. Payment of an award  earned
may  be in cash or in common shares or in a combination of both, and may be made
when earned,  or may  be  vested and  deferred, as  the  Committee in  its  sole
discretion  determines.  The  maximum  amount which  may  be  granted  under all
Performance Awards  for any  one year  for  any one  participant shall  be  Five
Million  Dollars ($5,000,000). This limit shall be applied to Performance Shares
by multiplying the number of Performance Shares granted by the fair market value
of one common share on the date of  the award. This paragraph 11 is intended  to
comply with the performance-based compensation requirements of Section 162(m) of
the  Internal Revenue  Code of  1986, as  amended, and  shall be  interpreted in
accordance with the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
  12. FOREIGN QUALIFIED BENEFITS. Benefits under  the Program may be granted  to
such  employees of the Company and its  subsidiaries who are residing in foreign
jurisdictions as the Committee in its sole discretion may determine from time to
time. The  Committee  may  adopt such  supplements  to  the Program  as  may  be
necessary  to comply with the applicable  laws of such foreign jurisdictions and
to afford participants favorable treatment  under such laws; provided,  however,
that  no  Benefit shall  be  granted under  any  such supplement  with  terms or
conditions which are  inconsistent with the  provisions as set  forth under  the
Program.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  13. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.
 
    (a)  Each year, on the date of the annual shareholders meeting, each 
person who is elected a Non-Employee Director at the annual shareholders 
meeting shall be awarded both: (i) a Restricted Stock Award covering a number 
of common shares with a fair market value on the date of the award closest 
to, but not in excess of, an amount equal to six times the monthly fee in 
effect under Section 3.1 of the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' 
Fee Plan on the date of the award and (ii) in the years 1996 through 2005, a 
Restricted Stock Award covering a number of common shares with a fair market 
value on the date of the award closest to, but not in excess of, Twenty-Two 
Thousand Dollars ($22,000) for awards made in years 1996 through 2000 and 
Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) for awards made in years 2001 through 
2005.
 
    (b)  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES. As soon  as practicable following the date of
the  award  the  Company  shall  issue  certificates  ("Certificates")  to   the
Non-Employee  Director receiving  the award,  representing the  number of common
shares covered by the award. Each Certificate shall bear a legend describing the
restrictions on such shares imposed by this paragraph 13.
 
    (c) RIGHTS. Upon issuance of the Certificates, the directors in whose  names
they  are registered  shall, subject to  the restrictions of  this paragraph 13,
have all of the rights of a  shareholder with respect to the shares  represented
by  the Certificates, including the  right to vote such  shares and receive cash
dividends and other distributions thereon.
 
    (d) RESTRICTED  PERIOD. The  shares  covered by  awards granted  under  this
paragraph  13 may  not be sold  or otherwise  disposed of within  six (6) months
following their grant  date (unless  such sale  would not  affect the  exemption
under  Rule 16b-3  of the  Securities and  Exchange Commission)  and in addition
shall be subject  to the restrictions  of this  paragraph 13 for  a period  (the
"Restricted  Period") commencing with  the date of  the award and  ending on the
earliest of the following events:
 
      (i) The date the director terminates or retires from the Board;
 
      (ii) The date the director dies; or
 
      (iii) The  date  of occurrence  of  a Change  in  Control (as  defined  in
    paragraph 21(c)).
 
    (e)  RESTRICTIONS. All shares covered by awards granted under this paragraph
13 shall be subject to the following restrictions during the Restricted Period:
 
      (i)  The  shares  may  not   be  sold,  assigned,  transferred,   pledged,
    hypothecated or otherwise disposed of.
 
      (ii)  Any additional common  shares of the Company  or other securities or
    property issued with respect to shares covered by awards granted under  this
    paragraph   13  as  a   result  of  any  stock   dividend,  stock  split  or
    reorganization, shall be subject to the restrictions and other provisions of
    this paragraph 13.
 
      (iii) A director  shall not  be entitled to  receive any  shares prior  to
    completion  of all actions deemed appropriate  by the Company to comply with
    federal or state securities laws and stock exchange requirements.
 
    (f) Except in  the event of  conflict, all provisions  of the Program  shall
  apply  to  this  paragraph  13.  In the  event  of  any  conflict  between the
  provisions of  the Program  and this  paragraph 13,  this paragraph  13  shall
  control.  Those provisions  of paragraph 17  which authorize  the Committee to
  declare outstanding  restricted stock  awards to  be vested  and to  amend  or
  modify  the terms  of Benefits  shall not apply  to awards  granted under this
  paragraph 13. Restricted Stock Awards granted under this paragraph 13 shall be
  satisfied from the Company's available treasury shares.
 
  14. NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.
 
    (a) Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive any or all of his or her
  fees earned during the second half  of 1996 and each subsequent calendar  year
  under  Section 3 of  the Abbott Laboratories  Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan
  (the "Directors' Fee Plan") in the  form of Non-qualified Stock Options  under
  this  Section 14. Each such election shall be irrevocable, and must be made in
  writing and filed with the Secretary of the Company by December 31, 1995  (for
  fees  earned in the  second half of  1996) and (for  fees earned in subsequent
  calendar years) by June 30 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in
  which such fees are  earned (or such  later date as  may be permissible  under
  Rule  16b-3 of the Securities  and Exchange Commission, but  in no event later
  than December 31 of such preceding calendar year).
 
    (b) A  Non-Employee Director  may file  a new  election each  calendar  year
  applicable  to fees earned in the  immediately succeeding calendar year. If no
  new election or revocation of a prior  election is received by June 30 of  any
  calendar  year (or such later date as may be permissible under paragraph (a)),
  the election,  if any,  in effect  for such  calendar year  shall continue  in
  effect  for the immediately succeeding calendar  year. Any election made under
  this Section 14 shall take precedence  over any election made by the  director
  for the same period, under the Directors' Fee Plan, to the extent necessary to
  resolve  any conflict between such elections. If  a director does not elect to
  receive his or her fees in the  form of Non-qualified Stock Options, the  fees
  due  such director shall be paid or deferred as provided in the Directors' Fee
  Plan and any applicable election thereunder by the director.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    (c) The number of common shares  covered by each Non-qualified Stock  Option
  granted  in any  year under this  Section 14  shall be determined  based on an
  independent appraisal for such year of the intrinsic value of options  granted
  hereunder  and the amount of fees covered  by the director's election for such
  year. The  number of  common shares  covered by  options granted  in 1996  (as
  determined  under this procedure) shall be the number of whole shares equal to
  (i) the product of three (3) times  the amount of fees which the director  has
  elected  under paragraph  (a) to  receive in  the form  of Non-qualified Stock
  Options, divided by (ii) One Hundred  percent (100%) of the Fair Market  Value
  of  one common  share on  the grant  date. Any  fraction of  a share  shall be
  disregarded, and the remaining amount of the fees corresponding to such option
  shall be  paid as  provided in  the  Directors' Fee  Plan and  any  applicable
  election thereunder by the director.
 
    (d)  Effective on October 10, 1997, each Non-qualified Stock Option due a 
director under this Section 14 prior to the 1998 annual shareholders meeting 
shall be granted on October 10, 1997 at a purchase price equal to One Hundred 
percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the common shares covered by such 
option on the grant date. Effective with the 1998 Annual Shareholders 
Meeting, each Non-qualified Stock Option due a director under this Section 14 
shall be granted annually, on the date of the annual shareholders meeting, at 
a purchase price equal to One Hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value 
of the common shares covered by such option on the grant date. Each such 
option shall be immediately exercisable and nonforfeitable, and shall not be 
exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it is 
granted. Each such option shall contain provisions allowing payment of the 
purchase price and, to the extent permitted, any taxes due on exercise, by 
delivery of other common shares of the Company (or, in the case of the 
payment of taxes, by withholding of shares).

    (e)  All Non-qualified Stock Options granted under this Section 14 prior 
to October 10, 1997, shall be immediately exercisable and nonforfeitable, and 
shall not be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date 
granted.
 
  15. NONTRANSFERABILITY. Except as provided by the Committee, each stock option
and  stock  appreciation  right  granted   under  this  Program  shall  not   be
transferable  other than by  will or the  laws of descent  and distribution, and
shall be exercisable, during the participant's lifetime, only by the participant
or the participant's guardian or legal representative.
 
  16. OTHER PROVISIONS. The award of any  Benefit under the Program may also  be
subject to other provisions (whether or not applicable to the Benefit awarded to
any  other  participant)  as the  Committee  determines  appropriate, including,
without limitation, provisions  for the  purchase of common  shares under  stock
options  in installments,  provisions for the  payment of the  purchase price of
shares under stock  options by delivery  of other common  shares of the  Company
having  a  then  market  value  equal to  the  purchase  price  of  such shares,
restrictions  on  resale  or  other  disposition,  such  provisions  as  may  be
appropriate  to comply with federal or  state securities laws and stock exchange
requirements and understandings or conditions as to the participant's employment
in addition to those specifically provided for under the Program.
 
  In the case of a participant who is subject to Section 16(a) and 16(b) of  the
Securities  Exchange  Act of  1934, the  Committee  may, at  any time,  add such
conditions and limitations to  any Benefit granted to  such participant, or  any
feature  of any such  Benefit, as the  Committee, in its  sole discretion, deems
necessary or desirable to comply with Section  16(a) or 16(b) and the rules  and
regulations thereunder or to obtain any exemption therefrom.
 
  A  participant may  pay the  purchase price of  shares under  stock options by
delivery of  a  properly  executed  exercise notice  together  with  a  copy  of
irrevocable  instructions to  a broker  to deliver  promptly to  the Company the
amount of sale or  loan proceeds to  pay the purchase  price. To facilitate  the
foregoing, the Company may enter into agreements for coordinated procedures with
one or more brokerage firms.
 
  The  Committee may,  in its  discretion and  subject to  such rules  as it may
adopt, permit or require a participant to  pay all or a portion of the  federal,
state  and local taxes, including FICA  and medicare withholding tax, arising in
connection with the following transactions: (a) the exercise of a  Non-qualified
Stock  Option; (b)  the lapse  of restrictions  on common  shares received  as a
Restricted Stock Award; or (c) the receipt or exercise of any other Benefit;  by
(i) having the Company withhold common shares, (ii) tendering back common shares
received  in connection with  such Benefit or  (iii) delivering other previously
acquired common shares of the Company  having a fair market value  approximately
equal to the amount to be withheld.
 
  The  Committee  may grant  stock  options under  the  Program (and,  for stock
options granted  prior  to  shareholder  approval of  this  Program,  under  the
Company's   1991  Incentive  Stock  Program)  that  provide  for  the  grant  of
replacement stock options if all or any  portion of the purchase price or  taxes
incurred  in connection with the exercise, are paid by delivery (or, in the case
of payment of taxes,  by withholding of  shares) of other  common shares of  the
Company.  The replacement stock  option shall cover the  number of common shares
surrendered to pay the purchase price, plus the number of shares surrendered  or
withheld  to satisfy  the participant's  tax liability,  shall have  an exercise
price equal to  One Hundred  percent (100%)  of the  Fair Market  Value of  such
common  shares on the date such replacement stock option is granted, shall first
be exercisable six months from the date of grant of the replacement stock option
and shall have an expiration date equal  to the expiration date of the  original
stock option.
 
  17.  TERM OF PROGRAM AND AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, CANCELLATION OR ACCELERATION
OF BENEFITS. The Program shall continue in effect until terminated by the  Board
of  Directors of  the Company,  except that no  Incentive Stock  Option shall be
granted more than ten (10) years after the date of adoption of this Program. The
terms and conditions applicable to any
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefits may at any  time be amended, modified  or canceled by mutual  agreement
between the Committee and the participant or such other persons as may then have
an  interest therein, so long as any amendment or modification does not increase
the number of common shares issuable  under this Program; and provided  further,
that  the Committee may, at any time and  in its sole discretion, declare any or
all stock  options and  stock appreciation  rights then  outstanding under  this
Program  or the Prior Programs to be exercisable and any or all then outstanding
Restricted Stock Awards  to be vested,  whether or not  such options, rights  or
awards are then otherwise exercisable or vested.
 
  18. AMENDMENT TO PRIOR PROGRAMS. No options or other Benefits shall be granted
under  the Prior Programs on  or after the date  of shareholder approval of this
Program.
 
  19. INDIVIDUAL LIMIT ON OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS; AGGREGATE LIMIT
ON INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. The maximum  number of shares with respect to  which
Incentive  Stock Options, Non-qualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights
and Limited Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to any one participant,  in
aggregate  in any  one calendar year,  shall be One  Million (1,000,000) shares.
Incentive Stock  Options  with  respect  to  no more  than  the  lesser  of  (i)
Seventy-Five  Million  (75,000,000)  shares  (plus any  shares  acquired  by the
Company pursuant to  payment of  the purchase  price of  shares under  incentive
stock  options by delivery of  other common shares of  the Company), or (ii) the
total number of shares reserved under paragraph 5 may be issued under the Plan.
 
  20. TAXES. The Company  shall be entitled  to withhold the  amount of any  tax
attributable to any amount payable or shares deliverable under the Program after
giving  the person entitled  to receive such  amount or shares  notice as far in
advance as practicable, and the Company may defer making payment or delivery  if
any such tax may be pending unless and until indemnified to its satisfaction.
 
  21. DEFINITIONS.
 
    (a)  FAIR MARKET VALUE. The Fair Market Value of the Company's common shares
shall be the average of  the highest and lowest sales  prices of such shares  as
reported  on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System for the date
as of which the determination is to be made or in the absence of reported  sales
on  that date, the average of such  reported highest and lowest sales prices for
the next preceding date on which reported sales occurred; provided that, in  the
case  of any Limited Stock Appreciation Right  (other than a right related to an
Incentive Stock Option), the Fair Market Value shall be the higher of:
 
      (i) The highest daily closing price of the Company's common shares  during
    the sixty (60) day period following the Change in Control; or
 
      (ii)  The highest gross price paid or  to be paid for the Company's common
    shares in  any of  the  transactions described  in paragraphs  21(c)(i)  and
    21(c)(ii).
 
    (b)  SUBSIDIARY.  The  term "subsidiary"  for  all purposes  other  than the
Incentive Stock Option provisions  in paragraph 6,  shall mean any  corporation,
partnership, joint venture or business trust, fifty percent (50%) or more of the
control of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company. For Incentive
Stock  Option purposes  the term  "subsidiary" shall  be defined  as provided in
Internal Revenue Code Section 424(f).
 
    (c) CHANGE  IN  CONTROL. A  "Change  in Control"  shall  be deemed  to  have
occurred on the earliest of the following dates:
 
      (i)  The date  any entity  or person  (including a  "group" as  defined in
    Section 13(d)(3)  of the  Securities  Exchange Act  of 1934  (the  "Exchange
    Act"))  shall have  become the beneficial  owner of, or  shall have obtained
    voting control over, thirty percent (30%) or more of the outstanding  common
    shares of the Company;
 
      (ii)  The  date  the  shareholders of  the  Company  approve  a definitive
    agreement (A)  to merge  or consolidate  the Company  with or  into  another
    corporation,  or to merge another corporation into the Company, in which the
    Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to  which
    any common shares of the Company would be converted into cash, securities of
    another corporation, or other property, other than a merger or consolidation
    of  the Company in which  holders of common shares  immediately prior to the
    merger have  the  same  proportionate  ownership  of  common  stock  of  the
    surviving corporation or its parent corporation immediately after the merger
    as  immediately before, or (B) to sell or otherwise dispose of substantially
    all the assets of the Company; or
 
      (iii) The date there shall have been  a change in a majority of the  Board
    of  Directors of the  Company within a  twelve (12) month  period unless the
    nomination for election by the  Company's shareholders of each new  director
    was approved by the vote of two-thirds of the directors then still in office
    who were in office at the beginning of the twelve (12) month period.
 
    (d)  DISABILITY. The term "disability" for all purposes of the Program shall
mean the participant's disability as defined in subsection 4.1(a) of the  Abbott
Laboratories Extended Disability Plan for twelve (12) consecutive months.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  22. ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS.
 
    (a)  If the  Company shall at  any time  change the number  of issued common
  shares without new consideration to the Company (such as by stock dividends or
  stock splits), the  total number of  shares reserved for  issuance under  this
  Program,  the individual and  aggregate limits described  in paragraph 19, and
  the number of shares covered by each outstanding Benefit shall be adjusted  so
  that  the aggregate consideration payable to the Company and the value of each
  such Benefit shall not be changed. The Committee shall also have the right  to
  provide  for the continuation  of Benefits or  for other equitable adjustments
  after  changes  in  the  Company  or  in  the  common  shares  resulting  from
  reorganization, sale, merger, consolidation, spin-off or similar occurrence.
 
    (b)  Notwithstanding  any  other  provision  of  this  Program,  and without
  affecting the number of shares otherwise reserved or available hereunder,  the
  Committee  may authorize the issuance or  assumption of Benefits in connection
  with  any  merger,  consolidation,  acquisition  of  property  or  stock,   or
  reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.
 
    (c)  Subject to the six month holding requirements of paragraphs 6, 7, 8(c),
  9(c), 10 and 13(d) but notwithstanding any other provision of this Program  or
  the Prior Programs, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control:
 
      (i)  All stock  options then outstanding  under this Program  or the Prior
    Programs shall become  fully exercisable  as of the  date of  the Change  in
    Control, whether or not then otherwise exercisable;
 
      (ii)  All Stock Appreciation Rights  and Limited Stock Appreciation Rights
    then outstanding shall become fully exercisable as of the date of the Change
    in Control, whether or not then otherwise exercisable;
 
      (iii) All  terms  and  conditions  of all  Restricted  Stock  Awards  then
    outstanding  shall  be deemed  satisfied as  of  the date  of the  Change in
    Control; and
 
      (iv) All Performance Awards then outstanding shall be deemed to have  been
    fully  earned and to be immediately payable, in  cash, as of the date of the
    Change in Control.
 
  23. AMENDMENT  AND TERMINATION  OF  PROGRAM. The  Board  of Directors  of  the
Company  may amend the Program from time to time or terminate the Program at any
time, but  no  such  action  shall  reduce  the  then  existing  amount  of  any
participant's  Benefit  or adversely  change  the terms  and  conditions thereof
without the participant's consent.  To the extent  required for compliance  with
Rule  16b-3  of the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission,  paragraph 13  of the
Program may not be amended more frequently than once every six months other than
to comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the
rules thereunder, and no amendment of the Program shall result in any  Committee
member  losing his or her status as  a "disinterested person" as defined in Rule
16b-3 of the  Securities and Exchange  Commission with respect  to any  employee
benefit plan of the Company or result in the Program or awards thereunder losing
their exempt status under said Rule 16b-3.
 
  24. SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL. The Program was adopted by the Board of Directors of
the  Company on October 13, 1995. The Program and any Benefit granted thereunder
shall be null and void  if shareholder approval is  not obtained by October  12,
1996.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 11
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 11

                        ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                          
                  CALCULATION OF FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
                                          
             (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
                                          

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31     
                                                         --------------------------------------
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE:                                  1997         1996             1995  
                                                         --------     ---------       ---------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>              <C>
1.   NET EARNINGS                                        $2,094.5     $1,882.0         $1,688.7
 
2.   AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING
     DURING THE YEAR                                        769.9        781.2            795.4
                                                         --------     --------        --------

3.   EARNINGS PER SHARE BASED UPON AVERAGE
     OUTSTANDING SHARES (1 DIVIDED BY 2)                 $   2.72     $   2.41         $   2.12
                                                         ========     ========         ========
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE:
1.   NET EARNINGS                                        $2,094.5     $1,882.0         $1,688.7
                                                         ========     ========         ========

2.   AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING
     DURING THE YEAR                                        769.9        781.2            795.4
                                                         ========     ========         ========

3.   ADDITIONAL SHARES ASSUMING FULL DILUTION:
     A. WEIGHTED AVERAGE STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED 
        AND OUTSTANDING FOR WHICH THE MARKET 
        EXCEEDS THE OPTION PRICE                             31.5         31.8             25.6
                                                         ========     ========         ========

     B. AGGREGATE PROCEEDS TO THE COMPANY FROM
        THE EXERCISE OF OPTIONS IN 3.A.:
        1.  CASH RECEIVED UPON EXERCISE                  $1,197.0     $  991.7         $  629.6
        2.  TAX BENEFITS TO BE CREDITED  
            TO EQUITY                                        71.2         43.9             34.2
                                                         --------     ---------       ---------

     TOTAL PROCEEDS (SUM OF 1 - 2)                       $1,268.2     $1,035.6         $  663.8
                                                         ========     ========         ========

     C. AVERAGE MARKET PRICE OF THE 
        COMPANY'S STOCK                                  $  61.46      $ 45.51         $  38.43
                                                         ========     ========         ========

     D. SHARES WHICH COULD BE REPURCHASED
        UNDER THE TREASURY STOCK
        METHOD (3.B. DIVIDED BY 3.C.)                        20.6         22.8             17.3
                                                         ========     ========         ========

     E. ADDITION TO AVERAGE OUTSTANDING SHARES
        (3.A. - 3.D.)                                        10.9          9.0              8.3
                                                         ========     ========         ========

     F. SHARES FOR FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER
        SHARE CALCULATION (2. + 3.E.)                       780.7        790.3            803.7
                                                         ========     ========         ========

     G. FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 
        (1. DIVIDED BY 3.F.)                             $   2.68     $   2.38         $   2.10
                                                         ========     ========         ========

</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 12
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 12
                                          
                                ABBOTT LABORATORIES
                                          
                 CALCULATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
                                          
                                    (UNAUDITED)
                                          
                        (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT RATIOS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31 
                                                              ----------------------------------------------------------

                                                               1997         1996         1995          1994         1993
                                                               ----         ----         ----          ----         ----
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
NET EARNINGS..................................                $2,094      $1,882        $1,689        $1,517       $1,399


ADD (DEDUCT):

INCOME TAXES..................................                   855         788           706           650          544
CAPITALIZED INTEREST COST, NET OF         
 AMORTIZATION.................................                    (1)         (4)           (7)           (7)          (6)

EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF 20%-49% OWNED COMPANIES, 
LESS DIVIDENDS  RECEIVED......................                 . . .       . . .             2           ...           (1)
 MINORITY INTEREST............................                    11          16            18            12           13
                                                              ------      ------        ------        ------       ------
NET EARNINGS AS ADJUSTED......................                $2,959      $2,682        $2,408        $2,172       $1,949
                                                              ------      ------        ------        ------       ------

                                                                                                                                   

                                                                                                                                   
FIXED CHARGES:

INTEREST ON LONG-TERM AND                                                                                                         
 SHORT-TERM DEBT..............................                $  135      $   95      $     70        $    50      $   54
CAPITALIZED INTEREST COST.....................                    14          16            19             18          16

RENTAL EXPENSE REPRESENTATIVE  OF AN 
 INTEREST FACTOR..............................                    29          26            26            26           26
                                                              ------      ------        ------        ------       ------

TOTAL FIXED CHARGES...........................                   178         137           115            94           96
                                                              ------      ------        ------        ------       ------


TOTAL ADJUSTED EARNINGS AVAILABLE FOR                                                                                             
 PAYMENT OF FIXED CHARGES.....................                $3,137       $2,819       $2,523        $2,266       $2,045
                                                              ======       ======       ======        ======       ======

 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES...........                  17.6         20.6         21.9          24.1         21.3
                                                              ======       ======       ======        ======       ======

</TABLE>


    NOTE:     FOR THE PURPOSE OF CALCULATING THIS RATIO, (I) EARNINGS HAVE BEEN
    CALCULATED BY ADJUSTING NET EARNINGS FOR TAXES ON EARNINGS; INTEREST
    EXPENSE; CAPITALIZED INTEREST COST, NET OF AMORTIZATION; MINORITY INTEREST;
    AND THE PORTION OF RENTALS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INTEREST FACTOR, (II) THE
    COMPANY CONSIDERS ONE-THIRD OF RENTAL EXPENSE TO BE THE AMOUNT REPRESENTING
    RETURN ON CAPITAL, AND (III) FIXED CHARGES COMPRISE TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSE,
    INCLUDING CAPITALIZED INTEREST AND SUCH PORTION OF RENTALS.





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit 13

The portions of the Abbott Laboratories Annual Report for the year ended 
December 31, 1997 captioned Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement 
of Shareholders' Investment, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
Report of Independent Public Accountants, Financial Instruments and Risk 
Management, Financial Review, and the applicable portions of the section 
captioned Summary of Financial Data for the Years 1993 through 1997. 
                                       
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                          Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
                                              
                  (Dollars and Shares in Thousands Except Per Share Data)

                                                               Year Ended December 31
                                                      ---------------------------------------
                                                          1997         1996           1995 
                                                      -----------  -----------    -----------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>            <C>
Net Sales. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            $11,883,462  $11,013,460    $10,012,194
                                                      -----------  -----------    -----------
Cost of products sold. . . . . . . . . . .              5,045,678    4,731,998      4,325,805
Research and development . . . . . . . . .              1,302,403    1,204,841      1,072,745
Selling, general and administrative. . . .              2,684,955    2,459,560      2,230,740
                                                      -----------  -----------    -----------
   Total Operating Cost and Expenses . . .              9,033,036    8,396,399      7,629,290
                                                      -----------  -----------    -----------

Operating Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . .              2,850,426    2,617,061      2,382,904
Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . .                134,550       95,445         69,532
Interest income. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                (47,748)     (44,521)       (51,783)
Other (income) expense, net. . . . . . . .               (186,322)    (103,413)       (30,164)
                                                      -----------  -----------    -----------
   Earnings Before Taxes . . . . . . . . .              2,949,946    2,669,550      2,395,319

Taxes on earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . .                855,484      787,517        706,619
                                                      -----------  -----------    -----------
Net Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             $2,094,462  $ 1,882,033     $1,688,700
                                                       ==========  ===========     ==========
Basic Earnings Per Common Share. . . . . .                  $2.72        $2.41          $2.12
                                                             ====         ====           ====
Diluted Earnings Per Common Share. . . . .                  $2.68        $2.38          $2.10
                                                             ====         ====           ====

Average Number of Common Shares 
  Outstanding Used for Basic Earnings 
   Per Common Share  . . . . . . . . . . .                769,873      781,247        795,362
Dilutive Common Stock Options. . . . . . .                 10,858        9,049          8,300
                                                          -------      -------        -------
Average Number of Common Shares Outstanding 
   Plus Dilutive Common Stock Options. . .                780,731      790,296        803,662
                                                          =======      =======        =======
Outstanding Employee Common Stock Options
   Having No Dilutive Effect . . . . . . .                  1,108          300          5,678
                                                          =======      =======        =======

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 
                              Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

                                     (Dollars in Thousands)




                                                                     Year Ended December 31
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                                 1997        1996           1995 
                                                              ---------   ----------     ----------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash Flow From (Used in) Operating Activities:
  Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        $2,094,462  $1,882,033     $1,688,700
  Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to
  net cash from operating activities -
  Depreciation and amortization. . . . . . . . . . . .           727,754     686,085        566,423
  Exchange (gains) losses, net . . . . . . . . . . . .            31,005      (3,419)         5,035
  Investing and financing (gains) losses, net. . . . .           113,999      57,224         43,020
  Trade receivables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          (222,427)   (163,621)       (91,349)
  Inventories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           (98,964)   (125,726)       (93,184)
  Prepaid expenses and other assets. . . . . . . . . .          (491,769)   (303,766)      (255,764)
  Trade accounts payable and other liabilities . . . .           485,407     342,407        256,549
  Income taxes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           (10,700)     10,845       (153,849)
                                                              ----------  ----------     ----------
       Net Cash From Operating Activities. . . . . . .         2,628,767   2,382,062      1,965,581
                                                              ----------  ----------     ----------
Cash Flow From (Used in) Investing Activities:
  Acquisition of Sanofi's parenteral products
     businesses in 1997, and MediSense in 1996,
     net of cash acquired. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          (200,475)   (830,559)             -
  Acquisitions of property, equipment and 
     other businesses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        (1,007,296)   (949,028)      (947,021)
  Purchases of investment securities . . . . . . . . .           (25,115)   (312,535)      (183,443)
  Proceeds from sales of investment securities . . . .            43,424     117,783         67,130
  Other. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            (8,209)     19,098         25,611
                                                              ----------  ----------     ----------
    Net Cash Used in Investing Activities. . . . . . .        (1,197,671) (1,955,241)    (1,037,723)
                                                              ----------  ----------     ----------
Cash Flow From (Used in) Financing Activities:
  Proceeds from borrowings with original
    maturities of more than three months . . . . . . .           115,934     504,652        353,317
  Repayments of borrowings with original
    maturities of more than three months . . . . . . .            (7,678)    (72,016)      (221,506)
  Proceeds from other borrowings . . . . . . . . . . .           309,829     402,401        282,754
  Purchases of common shares . . . . . . . . . . . . .        (1,054,512)   (808,816)      (771,411)
  Proceeds from stock options exercised. . . . . . . .           137,482     109,638         76,540
  Dividends paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          (809,554)   (728,147)      (653,567)
                                                              ----------  ----------     ----------
    Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. . . . . . .        (1,308,499)   (592,288)      (933,873)
                                                              ----------  ----------     ----------
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 
                               Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)

                                      (Dollars in Thousands)



                                                                     Year Ended December 31
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                                 1997        1996           1995 
                                                              ---------   ----------     ----------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>            <C>
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and
  cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         (2,782)      (5,521)        (3,060)
                                                              ---------   ----------     ----------
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents            119,815     (170,988)        (9,075)
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year . . . . . .        110,209      281,197        290,272
                                                              ---------   ----------     ----------
Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year . . . . . . . . .      $ 230,024    $ 110,209      $ 281,197
                                                              =========    =========      =========
Supplemental Cash Flow Information:
  Income taxes paid. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      $ 922,242   $  801,107     $  954,861
  Interest paid. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        132,645       89,509         67,917

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.

</TABLE>

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 
                               Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                                   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                     (Dollars in Thousands)

                                              ASSETS


                                                                            December 31
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                                 1997        1996           1995 
                                                              ---------   ----------     ----------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>            <C>
Current Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     $  230,024   $  110,209     $  281,197
  Investment securities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         28,986       12,875         34,500
  Trade receivables, less allowances of -
    1997: $167,406; 1996: $153,424; 1995: $157,990            1,782,326    1,708,807      1,563,038
  Inventories -
    Finished products  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        667,355      627,449        560,637
    Work in process  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        287,653      269,443        238,943
    Materials. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        324,892      341,313        311,361
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
      Total inventories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,279,900    1,238,205      1,110,941

  Prepaid income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        800,591      708,402        651,436
  Other prepaid expenses and receivables . . . . . . . .        916,381      702,404        585,599
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
     Total Current Assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,038,208    4,480,902      4,226,711
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
Investment Securities Maturing after One Year. . . . . .        630,967      665,553        422,547
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
Property and Equipment, at Cost:
  Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        152,791      156,038        152,401
  Buildings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,746,772    1,621,036      1,531,202
  Equipment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,486,512    6,142,139      5,518,210
  Construction in progress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        404,082      451,070        560,629
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
                                                              8,790,157    8,370,283      7,762,442
  Less: accumulated depreciation 
    and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4,220,466    3,908,740      3,512,904
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
  Net Property and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4,569,691    4,461,543      4,249,538
 
Net Intangible Assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,112,126      979,793        155,580
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
Deferred Charges and Other Assets. . . . . . . . . . . .        710,076      537,809        358,204
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
                                                            $12,061,068  $11,125,600     $9,412,580
                                                            ===========  ===========     ==========

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of this statement.
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 
                               Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                                   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                     (Dollars in Thousands)

                             LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT


                                                                            December 31
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                                 1997        1996           1995 
                                                              ---------   ----------     ----------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>            <C>
Current Liabilities:
  Short-term borrowings and current portion of 
       long-term debt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ 1,781,352  $ 1,383,727     $1,049,863
  Trade accounts payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,001,058      923,018        755,921
  Salaries, wages and commissions. . . . . . . . . . . .        332,914      322,292        286,186
  Other accrued liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,406,132    1,206,552      1,217,016
  Dividends payable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        201,450      185,866        165,354
  Income taxes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        311,562      322,262        315,974
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
     Total Current Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,034,468    4,343,717      3,790,314
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
Long-Term Debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        937,983      932,898        435,198
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
Deferred Income Taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        136,514      153,279         67,993
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------

Other Liabilities and Deferrals. . . . . . . . . . . . .        953,426      875,524        722,228
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
    
Shareholders' Investment:
  Preferred shares, one dollar par value
    Authorized - 1,000,000 shares, none issued . . . . .              -            -              -
  Common shares, without par value
    Authorized - 1,200,000,000 shares
    Issued at stated capital amount -
    Shares: 1997: 773,234,252; 1996: 784,037,858; 
    1995: 797,021,211  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        907,106      694,380        581,562
Earnings employed in the business. . . . . . . . . . . .      4,427,997    4,262,804      3,926,917
Cumulative translation adjustments . . . . . . . . . . .       (262,656)     (78,770)       (55,646)
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
                                                              5,072,447    4,878,414      4,452,833
Less:
Common shares held in treasury, at cost -
  Shares: 1997: 9,140,199; 1996: 9,588,632;
  1995: 9,714,379. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         48,238       50,605         51,268
Unearned compensation - restricted stock awards. . . . .         25,532        7,627          4,718
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
  Total Shareholders' Investment . . . . . . . . . . . .      4,998,677    4,820,182      4,396,847
                                                            -----------  -----------     ----------
                                                            $12,061,068  $11,125,600     $9,412,580
                                                            ===========  ===========     ==========
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT

                   (Dollars in Thousands Except Per Share Data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             Year Ended December 31
                                                      ------------------------------------
                                                         1997         1996         1995
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>          <C>
Common Shares:
  Beginning of Year
    Shares: 1997:  784,037,858;  1996: 797,021,211; 
    1995: 813,046,602. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  694,380   $  581,562   $  505,170
  Issued under incentive stock programs
    Shares: 1997:  7,634,213;  1996: 5,103,701; 
    1995: 4,332,070. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       177,395      105,648       70,842
  Tax benefit from option shares and 
    vesting of restricted stock awards 
    (no share effect). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        53,866       21,589       19,303
  Retired - Shares:  1997:  18,437,819;
    1996: 18,087,054;  1995: 20,357,461. . . . . .       (18,535)     (14,419)     (13,753)
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
  End of Year
    Shares: 1997:  773,234,252;  1996: 784,037,858;
    1995: 797,021,211. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  907,106   $  694,380   $  581,562
                                                      ==========   ==========   ==========

Earnings Employed in the Business:
  Beginning of Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $4,262,804   $3,926,917   $3,652,434
  Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2,094,462    1,882,033    1,688,700
  Unrealized gain on marketable equity securities, 
    net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,815        9,000       21,600
  Cash dividends declared on common shares
    (per share -1997:  $1.08; 1996: $.96; 
    1995: $.84). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      (825,138)    (748,659)    (666,406)
  Cost of common shares retired in excess
    of stated capital amount . . . . . . . . . . .    (1,129,757)    (811,996)    (771,263)
  Cost of treasury shares issued below market 
    value of restricted stock awards . . . . . . .        23,811        5,509        1,852
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
  End of Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $4,427,997   $4,262,804   $3,926,917
                                                      ==========   ==========   ==========

Cumulative Translation Adjustments:
  Beginning of Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  (78,770)  $  (55,646)  $  (51,124)
  Translation adjustments. . . . . . . . . . . . .      (183,886)     (23,124)      (4,522)
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
  End of Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ (262,656)  $  (78,770)  $  (55,646)
                                                      ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT (CONTINUED)

                   (Dollars in Thousands Except Per Share Data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             Year Ended December 31
                                                      ------------------------------------
                                                         1997         1996         1995
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>          <C>
Common Shares Held in Treasury:
  Beginning of Year
    Shares: 1997:  9,588,632;  1996: 9,714,379; 
      1995: 9,766,880. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  50,605    $  51,268    $  51,545
  Issued under incentive stock programs
    Shares: 1997:  448,433;  1996: 125,747; 
    1995: 52,501 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       (2,367)        (663)        (277)
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
  End of Year
    Shares: 1997:  9,140,199;  1996: 9,588,632;
    1995: 9,714,379. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  48,238    $  50,605    $  51,268
                                                      =========    =========    =========

Unearned Compensation - Restricted Stock Awards:
  Beginning of Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $   7,627    $   4,718    $   5,535
  Issued at market value - Shares: 1997: 444,000;
    1996: 118,800;  1995: 45,000 . . . . . . . . .       25,914        5,881        1,829
  Lapses - Shares: 1996: 6,000; 1995: 4,800. . . .            -         (308)        (137)
  Amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       (8,009)      (2,664)      (2,509)
                                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
  End of Year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  25,532    $   7,627    $   4,718
                                                      =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of this statement.
<PAGE>


                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION  

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent 
company and subsidiaries, after elimination of intercompany transactions.  
The accounts of foreign subsidiaries are consolidated as of November 30.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on
estimates and assumptions by management.  Actual results could differ from those
amounts.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 

     Cash equivalents consist of time deposits and certificates of deposit with
original maturities of three months or less.  

INVENTORIES 
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or
market.  Cost includes material and conversion costs.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
 
     Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Intangible assets, primarily purchased intangible assets and goodwill
resulting from business acquisitions, are amortized on a straight-line basis
over up to 40 years.  Accumulated amortization as of December 31, 1997, 1996,
and 1995, was $98 million, $55 million, and $26 million, respectively.

PRODUCT LIABILITY 

     Provisions are made for the portions of probable losses that are not
covered by product liability insurance.

TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS 
 
     For foreign operations in highly inflationary economies, translation gains
and losses are included in other (income) expense, net.  For remaining foreign
operations, translation adjustments are included as a component of shareholders'
investment.
<PAGE>


                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company recognizes revenue from product sales upon shipment to
customers.  Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, and returns and
other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related sales are
recorded. 

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 

     In 1997, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share."  As a result, the 
Company's calculation for previously reported earnings per share and earnings 
per share assuming dilution has changed.  This change has no effect on the 
previously reported earnings per share, and only a minor effect on the 
earnings per share assuming dilution. Subsequent to year end, the Board of 
Directors granted approximately 6.5 million stock options to employees of the 
Company.

<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


Note 2 - Taxes on Earnings
(dollars in thousands)

     Deferred income taxes reflect the tax consequences on future years of
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
financial reporting amounts.  U.S. income taxes are provided on those earnings
of foreign subsidiaries and subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under tax
incentive grants, which are intended to be remitted to the parent company. 
Undistributed earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries as
working capital and plant and equipment aggregated $1,549,000 at December 31,
1997.  Deferred income taxes not provided on these earnings would be
approximately $319,000.

     Earnings before taxes, and the related provisions for taxes on earnings,
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
Earnings Before Taxes                        1997         1996         1995
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
  Domestic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2,236,393   $1,934,872   $1,711,188
  Foreign. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   713,553      734,678      684,131
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$2,949,946   $2,669,550   $2,395,319
                                          ==========   ==========   ==========

Taxes on Earnings                            1997         1996         1995
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
  Current:
    U.S. Federal and Possessions . . . . .$  717,156   $  573,208   $  495,692
    State. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    71,447       62,835       47,656
    Foreign. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   171,259      207,512      251,339
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
  Total current. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   959,862      843,555      794,687
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------

  Deferred:
    Domestic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (130,634)     (68,762)     (81,264)
    Foreign. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26,836       13,338       (6,332)
    Enacted tax rate changes . . . . . . .      (580)        (614)        (472)
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
  Total deferred . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (104,378)     (56,038)     (88,068)
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $  855,484   $  787,517   $  706,619
                                          ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Differences between the effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory tax
rate were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               1997         1996         1995
                                               -----        -----        -----
<S>                                            <C>          <C>          <C>
Statutory tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . .     35.0%        35.0%        35.0%
Benefit of tax exemptions in Puerto Rico,
   the Dominican Republic, Italy, 
   Ireland, and The Netherlands. . . . . .     (6.1)        (6.5)        (5.7)
State taxes, net of federal benefit. . . .      1.6          1.5          1.3
All other, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (1.5)        (0.5)        (1.1)
                                               -----        -----        -----
Effective tax rate . . . . . . . . . . . .     29.0%        29.5%        29.5%
                                               =====        =====        =====
</TABLE>

          As of December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995, total deferred tax assets
were $1,144,915, $997,036, and $858,045, respectively, and total deferred tax
liabilities were $461,943, $427,412, and $265,388, respectively.  Valuation
allowances for deferred tax assets were not significant.  The temporary
differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities were as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              1997         1996         1995
                                           ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>          <C>
Compensation and employee benefits         $ 205,423    $ 185,537    $ 161,547
Trade receivable reserves                    176,070      130,692      126,209
Inventory reserves                           119,398      122,522      101,835
Deferred intercompany profit                 135,211      112,467       97,555
State income taxes                            32,442       30,343       25,602
Depreciation                                (196,233)    (184,270)    (178,025)
Other, primarily other accruals, 
  reserves and intangible assets not 
  currently deductible                       191,766      157,832      248,720
                                           ---------    ---------    ---------
Total                                      $ 664,077    $ 555,123    $ 583,443
                                           =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Note 3 - Financial Instruments

     The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to 
hedge intercompany loans and trade accounts payable where the functional 
currency of the lending and borrowing entities are not the same.  Such 
contracts are also used to hedge foreign currency denominated third party 
trade payables and receivables.  For intercompany loans, the contracts 
require the Company to sell foreign currencies, primarily Japanese yen and 
European currencies, in exchange for primarily U.S. dollars and other 
European currencies.  For intercompany and trade payables and receivables, 
the currencies hedged are primarily the U.S. dollar, Japanese yen and 
European currencies.  At December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995, the Company held 
$1.3 billion, $1.0 billion, and $723 million, respectively, of foreign 
currency forward exchange contracts.  The contracts outstanding at December 
31, 1997 mature in 1998.  These contracts are marked to market each month.  
The resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally 
offset by losses or gains on the exposures being hedged.

     The Company purchases U.S. dollar call options as a hedge of anticipated 
intercompany purchases by foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is 
not the U.S. dollar.  These contracts give the Company the right, but not the 
requirement, to purchase U.S. dollars in exchange for foreign currencies, 
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies, at predetermined exchange 
rates. At December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995, the Company held $461 million, 
$431 million, and $330 million, respectively, of U.S. dollar call option 
contracts. The contracts outstanding at December 31, 1997 mature in 1998.  
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on contracts that qualify as hedges 
of anticipated purchases by foreign subsidiaries are recognized in the same 
period that the foreign currency exposure is recognized.  Contracts that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market each month, and the 
resulting gains or losses are reflected in income.

     The Company purchases foreign currency put options as a hedge against the
effect of exchange rate fluctuations on income.  These contracts give the
Company the right, but not the requirement, to sell foreign currencies,
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies, in exchange for U.S. dollars at
predetermined exchange rates.  These contracts are marked to market each month. 
The resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset
by losses or gains on the exposures being hedged.  There were no such contracts
outstanding at December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995.

     The gross unrealized holding gains/(losses) on current investment
securities and those maturing after one year totaled $4.1 million and $(10.2)
million at December 31, 1997, respectively; $4.2 million and $(11.0) million at
December 31, 1996, respectively; and $5.6 million and $(4.3) million at December
31, 1995, respectively.

<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


     The carrying values and fair values of certain of the Company's 
financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below.  The 
carrying values of all other financial instruments approximate their 
estimated fair values. Fair value is the quoted market price of the 
instrument held or the quoted market price of a similar instrument.  The 
counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international 
financial institutions.  The Company does not expect any losses from 
nonperformance by these counterparties.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                           (millions of dollars)
                                                 1997                      1996                      1995 
                                        --------------------      --------------------      --------------------
                                        Carrying       Fair       Carrying       Fair       Carrying       Fair
                                         Value        Value        Value        Value        Value        Value
                                        --------      -----       --------      -----       --------      -----
<S>                                     <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>
Investment  Securities:
  Current . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $   29.0     $  29.1      $   12.9     $  12.7      $  34.5      $  34.6
  Maturing after One Year . . . . . .      631.0       624.8         665.6       659.0        422.5        423.7

Total Long-Term Debt. . . . . . . . .     (940.6)     (946.0)       (935.2)     (917.0)      (436.6)      (441.8)

Foreign Currency Forward
  Exchange Contracts:
     (Payable) position . . . . . . .      ( 6.2)      ( 6.2)        (10.9)      (10.9)        (2.6)        (2.6)
     Receivable position. . . . . . .       24.1        24.1          18.6        18.6          5.2          5.2

Foreign Currency Option
  Contracts . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14.8        15.3           2.8         1.6         10.6          7.8
</TABLE>




<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Note 4 - Debt and Lines of Credit
(dollars in thousands)

The following is a summary of long-term debt at December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           1997         1996          1995
                                                         --------     --------     --------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
6.5% debentures, due 2001. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $250,000     $250,000     $      -
5.6% debentures, due 2003. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  200,000      200,000      200,000
6.8% debentures, due 2005. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  150,000      150,000      150,000
6.4% debentures, due 2006. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  250,000      250,000            -
Other, primarily industrial revenue bonds at 
  various rates of interest, averaging 5.2%
  at December 31, 1997, and due at
  various dates through 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   87,983       82,898       85,198
                                                         --------     --------     --------
Total, net of current maturities . . . . . . . . . . . . $937,983     $932,898     $435,198
                                                         ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

Payments required on long-term debt outstanding at December 31,1997 are 
$2,585 in 1998, $800 in 1999, $9,000 in 2000, $250,000 in 2001, and $1,000 in 
2002.

     At December 31, 1997, the Company had $1,505,000 of unused domestic lines
of credit which support domestic commercial paper borrowing arrangements. 
Related compensating balances, which are subject to withdrawal by the Company at
its option, and commitment fees are not material.  The Company's weighted
average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 6.0% at December 31, 1997,
and 5.8% at December 31, 1996 and 1995. 

     The Company may issue up to $400,000 of senior debt securities in the
future under a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 1996.



<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Note 5 - Retirement Plans
(dollars in thousands)

Retirement plans consist of defined benefit, defined contribution, and medical
and dental plans.

     Pension benefits for the Company's defined benefit plans generally are
based on an employee's years of service and compensation near retirement. 
Certain plan benefits would vest and certain restrictions on the use of plan
assets would take effect upon a change in control of the Company.

          Net pension cost for the Company's significant defined benefit plans
includes the following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1997        1996        1995
                                                      ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
Service cost - benefits earned during the year . .    $  97,272   $  81,243   $  59,636
Interest cost on projected benefit obligations . .      128,404     111,449      94,101
Return on assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (377,828)   (224,412)   (274,844)
Net amortization and deferral. . . . . . . . . . .      222,424      80,886     139,491
                                                      ---------   ---------   ---------
Net pension cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  70,272   $  49,166   $  18,384
                                                      =========   =========   =========
</TABLE>

The plans' funded status at December 31 was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1997        1996        1995
                                                     ----------  ----------  ----------
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>         <C>
Actuarial present value of benefit obligations -
  Vested benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $1,460,866  $1,338,376  $1,036,937
  Nonvested benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      170,275     163,033     140,232
                                                     ----------  ----------  ----------
Accumulated benefit obligations. . . . . . . . . .   $1,631,141  $1,501,409  $1,177,169
                                                     ==========  ==========  ==========

Plans' assets at fair value, principally
  listed securities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $2,192,486  $1,828,989  $1,600,368
Actuarial present value of projected
  benefit obligations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,000,329   1,771,191   1,494,348
                                                     ----------  ----------  ----------
Projected benefit obligations less 
  than plans' assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      192,157      57,798     106,020
Unrecognized net transitional asset. . . . . . . .      (32,085)    (42,728)    (52,915)
Unrecognized prior service cost. . . . . . . . . .        9,053      11,968      12,532
Unrecognized net (gain) loss . . . . . . . . . . .      (78,522)     51,531     (11,315)
                                                     ----------  ----------  ----------
Net prepaid pension cost . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $   90,603  $   78,569  $   54,322
                                                     ==========  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Assumptions used for the Company's major defined benefit plan as of December 31
include:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1997         1996         1995
                                                     ------       ------       ------
<S>                                                  <C>          <C>          <C>
Discount rate for determining obligations
  and interest cost. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7 1/4%       7 1/2%       7 1/4%
Expected aggregate average long-term change
  in compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5%           5%           4%
Expected long-term rate of return on assets. . . .   9 1/2%           9%           9%
</TABLE>

The Stock Retirement Plan is the principal defined contribution plan.  Company
contributions to this plan were $60,838 in 1997, $54,883 in 1996, and $48,845 in
1995, equal to 7.33 percent of dividends declared, as provided under the plan.


     The Company provides certain medical and dental benefits to qualifying
domestic retirees.  Net post-retirement health care cost includes the following
components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           1997         1996         1995
                                                          -------      -------      -------
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
Service cost - benefits earned during the year . . . .    $28,274      $28,302      $21,328
Interest cost on accumulated post-retirement
  benefit obligations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     42,167       40,822       36,412
Return on assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (17,009)      (9,372)     (16,798)
Net amortization and deferral. . . . . . . . . . . . .     13,262        7,128       11,980
                                                          -------      -------      -------
Net post-retirement health care cost . . . . . . . . .    $66,694      $66,880      $52,922
                                                          =======      =======      =======
</TABLE>

The plans' funded status at December 31 was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1997          1996        1995
                                                      ---------     ---------   ---------
<S>                                                   <C>           <C>         <C>
Actuarial present value of benefit obligations -
  Retirees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ 213,313     $ 196,800   $ 174,782
  Fully eligible active participants . . . . . . .      150,348       138,564     131,669
  Other active participants. . . . . . . . . . . .      282,787       264,267     250,518
                                                      ---------     ---------   ---------
Accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations. .      646,448       599,631     556,969
Plans' assets at fair value, principally listed 
  securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       86,600        87,719      95,530
                                                      ---------     ---------   ---------
Accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations
  in excess of plans' assets . . . . . . . . . . .     (559,848)     (511,912)   (461,439)
Unrecognized net loss. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      133,379       152,030     168,307
                                                      ---------     ---------   ---------
Accrued post-retirement health care cost . . . . .    $(426,469)    $(359,882)  $(293,132)
                                                      =========     =========   =========
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



The discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions 
are identical to those used for the Company's major defined benefit plan.  A 
five percent annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health 
care benefits is assumed.  A one-percentage-point increase in the assumed 
health care cost trend rate would increase the accumulated post-retirement 
benefit obligations as of December 31, 1997, by approximately $127,600, and 
the total of the service and interest cost components of net post-retirement 
health care cost for the year then ended by approximately $17,500.

     The Company provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily
salary continuation plans, to qualifying domestic employees, and accrues for the
related cost over the service lives of the employees.















<PAGE>


                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)



Note 6 - Incentive Stock Program

     The 1996 Incentive Stock Program authorizes the granting of stock 
options, stock appreciation rights, limited stock appreciation rights, 
restricted stock awards, performance units, and foreign qualified benefits.  
Stock options, limited stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, 
and foreign qualified benefits have been granted and are currently 
outstanding under this program and prior programs.  The purchase price of 
shares under option must be at least equal to the fair market value of the 
common stock on the date of grant and the maximum term of the option is ten 
years.  Options granted in 1997, 1996, and 1995 vest equally over three years 
except for replacement options which generally vest in six months.

     Limited stock appreciation rights have been granted to certain holders 
of stock options and can be exercised, by surrendering related stock options, 
only upon a change in control of the Company.  At December 31, 1997, 
5,955,411 options, with a weighted average exercise price of $44.28 per 
share, were subject to limited stock appreciation rights.  Upon a change in 
control of the Company, all outstanding stock options become fully 
exercisable, and all terms and conditions of all restricted stock awards are 
deemed satisfied.

     At December 31, 1997, 9,324,161 shares were reserved for future grants
under the 1996 Program.  Data with respect to stock options under the 1996
Program and prior programs are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        OPTIONS OUTSTANDING             EXERCISABLE OPTIONS
                      -----------------------          ----------------------
                                     Weighted                        Weighted
                                      Average                         Average
                                     Exercise                        Exercise
                        Shares         Price             Shares        Price
                      ----------    ---------          ----------    --------
<S>                   <C>           <C>                <C>           <C>
January 1, 1995       28,288,158    $  23.77
Granted                5,827,269       39.17
Exercised             (4,332,070)      16.28
Lapsed                  (282,570)      33.81
                      ----------    ---------    
December 31, 1995     29,500,787       27.82           18,654,652    $ 23.40
                                                       ==========    ========
Granted                6,121,564       43.96
Exercised             (5,103,701)      20.38
Lapsed                  (281,555)      40.39
                      ----------    ---------    
December 31, 1996     30,237,095       32.22           19,957,414      27.51
                                                       ==========    ========
Granted                7,101,749       59.45
Exercised             (7,634,213)      22.75
Lapsed                  (376,508)      48.36
                      ----------    ---------    
December 31, 1997     29,328,123      $41.08           16,772,166     $33.12
                      ==========    =========          ==========    ========
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                 Options  Outstanding      Exercisable Options 
                                 at December 31, 1997     at December 31, 1997
                               -----------------------    ---------------------
                                Weighted      Weighted                 Weighted
                                 Average      Average                  Average
Range of                        Remaining     Exercise                 Exercise
Exercise Prices    Shares      Life (Years)    Price        Shares       Price
- ---------------  ----------    ------------   --------    ----------   --------
<S>              <C>               <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>
$12 to $32        4,770,880        4.4        $25.50       4,768,846    $25.50
$33 to $40       11,973,985        5.5         35.27      10,222,270     34.61
$41 to $69       12,583,258        8.7         52.50       1,781,050     44.97
                 ----------        ---        ------      ----------    ------

$12 to $69       29,328,123        6.7        $41.08      16,772,166    $33.12
                 ==========        ===        ======      ==========    ======
</TABLE>

The Company measures compensation cost using the intrinsic value-based method 
of accounting.  Had compensation cost been determined using the fair market 
value-based accounting method for options granted in 1997, 1996 and 1995, pro 
forma net income for 1997, 1996, and 1995 would have been $2.030 billion, 
$1.845 billion and $1.674 billion, respectively, and pro forma basic earnings 
per common share for 1997, 1996 and 1995 would have been $2.64, $2.36 and 
$2.11, respectively. The weighted average fair value of an option granted in 
1997, 1996 and 1995, was $16.43, $11.63 and $11.37, respectively.  For 
purposes of fair market value disclosures, the fair market value of an option 
grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the 
following assumptions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    1997      1996       1995
                                    -----     -----      -----
<S>                                 <C>       <C>        <C>
Risk-Free Interest Rate              6.00%     5.25%      6.75%
Average Life of Options (years)      5.2       5.2        5.2
Volatility                          25.0%     25.0%      25.0%
Dividend Yield                       1.9%      1.9%       2.1%
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


Note 7 - Investment Securities
(dollars in thousands)

The following is a summary of investment securities at December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             1997       1996       1995
                                                           --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>        <C>
Current Investment Securities
 Time deposits and certificates of deposit . . . . . . . . $ 25,700   $    800   $ 10,000
 Other, primarily debt obligations issued or guaranteed
    by various governments or government agencies. . . . .    3,286     12,075     24,500
                                                           --------   --------   --------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 28,986   $ 12,875   $ 34,500
                                                           ========   ========   ========


                                                             1997       1996       1995
                                                           --------   --------   --------
Investment Securities Maturing after One Year
  Time deposits and certificates of deposit,
    maturing through 2001. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $406,500   $432,200   $161,500
  Corporate debt obligations, maturing through 2008. . . .   82,143     84,310     86,728
  Debt obligations issued or guaranteed
    by various governments or government agencies,
    maturing through 2023. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  142,324    149,043    174,319
                                                           --------   --------   --------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $630,967   $665,553   $422,547
                                                           ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

The Company generally holds investment securities until maturity.  All
investment securities classified as current as of December 31, 1997 mature in
1998.

          Of the investment securities listed above, $656,634, $676,251, and
$452,445, were held at December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively, by
subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under tax incentive grants expiring from
2002 through 2007.  In addition, these subsidiaries held cash equivalents of
$81,100 and $197,600 at December 31, 1997, and 1995, respectively.


<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Note 8 - Investment in TAP Holdings Inc.
(dollars in millions)

The Company's 50 percent owned joint venture, TAP Holdings Inc., (TAP) is 
accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  Other (income) expense, 
net, includes the Company's share of TAP's income of $189, $130, and $75 in 
1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.  The investment in TAP is included in 
deferred charges and other assets and was $311, $185, and $75 at December 31, 
1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.  Dividends received from TAP were $63, 
$20, and $62 in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.  Summarized financial 
information for TAP is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  Year Ended December 31
                             ------------------------------
                               1997       1996      1995
                               ----       ----      ----
<S>                          <C>        <C>        <C>
Net Sales                    $1,565.8   $1,128.6   $ 750.3
Income before income taxes      612.4      426.7     246.6
Net income                      379.0      259.4     149.5

                                      December 31
                             -------------------------------
                               1997       1996      1995
                               ----       ----      ----
Current assets               $  727.5   $  439.0   $ 193.6
Total assets                    847.9      577.1     359.6
Current liabilities             223.2      198.5     178.7

</TABLE>
<PAGE>


                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


Note 9 - Quarterly Results (Unaudited)

(dollars in millions except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              1997         1996         1995
                                            --------     --------     --------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>          <C>
FIRST QUARTER
Net Sales. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $2,999.8     $2,672.2     $2,524.4
Gross Profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1,672.5      1,516.0      1,435.5
Net Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     534.8        480.1        417.3
Basic Earnings Per Common Share. . . . . .       .69          .61          .52
Diluted Earnings Per Common Share. . . . .       .68          .60          .52

SECOND QUARTER
Net Sales. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $2,900.4     $2,699.2     $2,500.3
Gross Profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1,683.4      1,555.3      1,414.3
Net Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     521.5        470.4        424.0
Basic Earnings Per Common Share. . . . . .       .68          .60          .53
Diluted Earnings Per Common Share. . . . .       .67          .60          .52

THIRD QUARTER
Net Sales. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $2,865.2     $2,646.2     $2,390.8
Gross Profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1,623.3      1,468.9      1,320.5
Net Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     471.5        420.9        382.0
Basic Earnings Per Common Share. . . . . .       .61          .54          .48
Diluted Earnings Per Common Share. . . . .       .60          .53          .47

FOURTH QUARTER
Net Sales. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $3,118.1     $2,995.9     $2,596.7
Gross Profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1,858.6      1,741.3      1,516.1
Net Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     566.7        510.6        465.4
Basic Earnings Per Common Share. . . . . .       .74          .66          .59
Diluted Earnings Per Common Share                .73          .65          .59

</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


Note 10 - Litigation and Environmental Matters

     The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings 
including numerous antitrust suits and investigations in connection with the 
pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals.   In addition, the Company has been 
identified as a potentially responsible party for investigation and cleanup 
costs at a number of locations in the United States and Puerto Rico under 
Federal remediation laws and is investigating potential contamination at a 
number of Company-owned locations.

          The prescription pharmaceutical pricing antitrust suits allege that 
various pharmaceutical manufacturers have conspired to fix prices for 
prescription pharmaceuticals and/or to discriminate in pricing to retail 
pharmacies by providing discounts to mail-order pharmacies, institutional 
pharmacies and HMOs in violation of state and federal antitrust laws.  The 
suits have been brought on behalf of individuals and retail pharmacies and 
name both the Company and certain other pharmaceutical manufacturers and 
pharmaceutical wholesalers and at least one mail-order pharmacy company as 
defendants.  The cases seek treble damages, civil penalties, injunctive and 
other relief.  The Company has filed or intends to file a response to each of 
the complaints denying all substantive allegations.

     The Company expects that within the next year, legal proceedings will 
occur which may result in a change in the estimated reserves recorded by the 
Company. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending 
claims, proceedings, investigations and remediation activities with 
certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate disposition 
should not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial 
position, cash flows, or results of operations.

<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Note 11 - Business Acquisitions

     In 1997, the Company acquired certain parenteral products businesses of 
Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc., for approximately $200 million.  A substantial 
portion of the purchase price was allocated to goodwill, which will be 
amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years.  In 1996, the Company 
acquired all of the outstanding shares of MediSense, Inc., a manufacturer of 
blood glucose self-testing products.  Of the cash purchase price of 
approximately $867 million, $219 million was allocated to goodwill; $635 
million was allocated to other intangible assets; and $37 million was charged 
against earnings for in-process research and development.  Goodwill and other 
intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over 25 to 40 
years.  Had these acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous 
years, consolidated sales and income would not have been significantly 
different from reported amounts.

     The Company currently owns 73% of the capital stock of a Japanese 
subsidiary.  In 1996, the Company entered into an agreement with the 
minority interest shareholder to purchase their then 30% ownership over a 
ten-year period, beginning in 1997.

Note 12 - Subsequent Event

On February 13, 1998, the Company announced a two-for-one stock split. 
Shareholders of record at the close of business on May 1, 1998 will be issued an
additional share of the Company's common stock on May 29, 1998 for each share
owned on the record date.  The number of shares and the per share amounts
included in the December 31, 1997, financial statements have not been restated
for the stock split.

Note 13 - Industry Segment and Geographic Area Information
(dollars in millions)

The Company's principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and
sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products and services.  The
Company's products are generally sold directly to retailers, wholesalers,
hospitals, health care facilities, laboratories, physicians' offices and
government agencies throughout the world.  These products have been classified
into the following industry segments:

PHARMACEUTICAL AND NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS - Included are a broad line of adult and
pediatric pharmaceuticals and nutritionals, which are sold primarily on the
prescription or recommendation of physicians or other health care professionals;
consumer products; agricultural and chemical products; and bulk pharmaceuticals.

HOSPITAL AND LABORATORY PRODUCTS - Included are diagnostic systems for
consumers, blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories and alternate-care
testing sites; intravenous and irrigation fluids and related administration
equipment; drugs and drug delivery systems; anesthetics; critical care products;
diagnostic imaging; and other medical specialty products for hospitals and
alternate care sites.

     In the following tables, net sales by industry segment and geographic area
include both sales to customers, as reported in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings, and inter-area sales (for geographic areas) at sales prices which
approximate market.  Operating profit excludes corporate expenses.

<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                          <C>          <C>          <C>
Industry Segments (a)                          1997        1996         1995
                                             -------     -------      -------
Net Sales
  Pharmaceutical and nutritional . . . . .   $ 6,922     $ 6,307      $ 5,629
  Hospital and laboratory  . . . . . . . .     4,961       4,706        4,383
                                             -------     -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $11,883     $11,013      $10,012
                                             =======     =======      =======

Operating Profit
  Pharmaceutical and nutritional . . . . .   $ 2,217     $ 1,898      $ 1,586
  Hospital and laboratory  . . . . . . . .       712         810          853
                                             -------     -------      -------
  Operating Profit . . . . . . . . . . . .     2,929       2,708        2,439
  Corporate (income) expense, net (b). . .      (108)        (13)          26
  Interest (income) expense, net . . . . .        87          51           18
                                             -------     -------      -------
Earnings Before Taxes. . . . . . . . . . .   $ 2,950     $ 2,670      $ 2,395
                                             =======     =======      =======

Identifiable Assets
  Pharmaceutical and nutritional . . . . .   $ 4,370     $ 4,117      $ 3,866
  Hospital and laboratory (c). . . . . . .     5,211       4,977        3,782
  General corporate (d). . . . . . . . . .     2,480       2,032        1,765
                                             -------     -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $12,061     $11,126      $ 9,413
                                             =======     =======      =======

Capital Expenditures
  Pharmaceutical and nutritional . . . . .   $   384     $   374      $   459
  Hospital and laboratory. . . . . . . . .       616         571          483
  General corporate. . . . . . . . . . . .         7           4            5
                                             -------     -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 1,007     $   949      $   947
                                             =======     =======      =======

Depreciation and Amortization
  Pharmaceutical and nutritional . . . . .   $   299     $   285      $   252
  Hospital and laboratory (c). . . . . . .       426         397          311
  General corporate. . . . . . . . . . . .         3           4            3
                                             -------     -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $   728     $   686      $   566
                                             =======     =======      =======
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


(a)  Net sales and operating profit in 1997 and 1996 were unfavorably affected
by the relatively stronger U.S. dollar, and in 1995, were favorably impacted by
the relatively weaker U.S. dollar. 

(b)  Corporate expenses not allocated to segments include results from joint
ventures, net foreign exchange (gains)/losses, minority interest expense and
other general corporate income and expense.  Net foreign exchange reflects a
gain of $(9.0) in 1997, and losses of $21.8 in 1996 and $25.2 in 1995.

(c)  In 1997, the Company acquired certain parenteral products businesses of
Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  In 1996, the Company acquired all of the
outstanding shares of MediSense, Inc.

(d)  General corporate assets are principally prepaid income taxes, cash and
cash equivalents, investment securities, and investments in joint ventures.


<PAGE>

                      Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Geographic Areas (a)                           1997         1996         1995
                                             -------      -------      -------
<S>                                          <C>          <C>          <C>
Net Sales
  United States:
    Domestic and export customers. . . . .   $ 7,472      $ 6,786      $ 6,121
    Inter-area . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,776        1,762        1,371
                                             -------      -------      -------
  Total United States. . . . . . . . . . .     9,248        8,548        7,492
  Latin America. . . . . . . . . . . . . .       685          619          540
  Europe, Mideast and Africa . . . . . . .     2,188        2,135        1,918
  Pacific, Far East and Canada . . . . . .     1,538        1,473        1,433
  Eliminations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (1,776)      (1,762)      (1,371)
                                             -------      -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $11,883      $11,013      $10,012
                                             =======      =======      =======
Operating Profit 
  United States. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 2,239      $ 2,012      $ 1,653
  Latin America. . . . . . . . . . . . . .       164          167          177
  Europe, Mideast and Africa . . . . . . .       377          381          385
  Pacific, Far East and Canada . . . . . .       203          229          234
  Eliminations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       (58)         (93)         (10)
                                             -------      -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 2,925      $ 2,696      $ 2,439
                                             =======      =======      =======
Identifiable Assets,
Excluding General Corporate Assets (c) (d)
  United States  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 6,732      $ 6,120      $ 5,081
  Latin America  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       497          436          330
  Europe, Mideast and Africa . . . . . . .     1,712        1,817        1,517
  Pacific, Far East and Canada . . . . . .       988        1,015          927
  Eliminations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      (348)        (294)        (207)
                                             -------      -------      -------
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 9,581      $ 9,094      $ 7,648
                                             =======      =======      =======
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To the Shareholders of Abbott Laboratories:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Abbott 
Laboratories (an Illinois corporation) and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 
1997, 1996, and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, 
shareholders' investment, and cash flows for the years then ended.  These 
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based 
on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present 
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Abbott 
Laboratories and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995, and 
the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Chicago, Illinois                                 Arthur Andersen LLP
January 15, 1998
(except with respect to the
matter discussed in Note 12,
as to which the date is
February 13, 1998)


                          AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S REPORT


The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed of six non-employee 
directors.  The Audit Committee oversees the Company's financial reporting 
process on behalf of the Board of Directors.  The Committee held two meetings 
during 1997.  In fulfilling its responsibility, the Committee recommended to 
the Board of Directors, subject to shareholder approval, the selection of the 
Company's independent public accountants.  The Audit Committee discussed with 
the internal auditors and the independent public accountants the overall 
scope and specific plans for their respective audits.  The Committee also 
discussed the Company's consolidated financial statements and the adequacy of 
the Company's internal controls.  During the Audit Committee meetings the 
Committee met with the internal auditors and independent public accountants, 
without management present, to discuss the results of their audits, their 
evaluations of the Company's internal controls, and the overall quality of 
the Company's financial reporting.  The meetings also were designed to 
facilitate any private communication with the Committee desired by the 
internal auditors or independent public accountants.

W. Ann Reynolds, Ph.D.
Chairman, Audit Committee


<PAGE>

                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                      MANAGEMENT REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Management has prepared, and is responsible for, the Company's consolidated 
financial statements and related notes.  They have been prepared in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily 
include amounts based on judgments and estimates by management.  All 
financial information in this annual report is consistent with the 
consolidated financial statements.

     The Company maintains internal accounting control systems and related 
policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets 
are safeguarded, that transactions are executed in accordance with 
management's authorization and properly recorded, and that accounting records 
may be relied upon for the preparation of consolidated financial statements 
and other financial information.  The design, monitoring, and revision of 
internal accounting control systems involve, among other things, management's 
judgment with respect to the relative cost and expected benefits of specific 
control measures.  The Company also maintains an internal auditing function 
which evaluates and formally reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of 
internal accounting controls, policies, and procedures.

     The Company's consolidated financial statements have been audited by 
independent public accountants who have expressed their opinion with respect 
to the fairness of these statements.

Duane L. Burnham
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



Gary P. Coughlan
Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer



Theodore A. Olson
Vice President and Controller


<PAGE>


                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                      FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
                                     (Unaudited)

INTEREST RATE SENSITIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company does not currently use derivative financial instruments, such as
interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for its
debt instruments and investment securities.  As of December 31, 1997 the Company
had $1.7 billion of domestic commercial paper outstanding with an average
interest rate of 6.0% and with an average remaining life of 11 days.  The fair
market value of long-term debt at December 31, 1997 amounted to $946 million and
consists primarily of fixed rate (average of 6.3%) debt with maturities through
2023.  As of December 31, 1997 the fair market value of current and long-term
investment securities, maturing through 2023, amounted to $654 million. 
Approximately one-third of these investments have fixed interest rates (average
of 7.5%), while the remaining investments have variable rates.  A hypothetical
10% change in the interest rates would not have a material effect on cash 
flows, income or market values.

MARKET PRICE SENSITIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company maintains a portfolio of available for sale marketable equity
securities which resulted from strategic technology acquisitions and other
investments.  The market value of these investments amounted to approximately
$119 million as of December 31, 1997.  A hypothetical 10% decrease in the share
prices of these investments would not have a material effect on market value of
these investments.

FOREIGN CURRENCY SENSITIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - PURCHASED U.S. DOLLAR CALL
OPTIONS

The Company purchases U.S. dollar call options as a hedge of anticipated
intercompany purchases by foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency, 
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies, is not the U.S. dollar.  At
December 31, 1997, the Company held $461 million of these contracts. 
Unamortized premiums for these contracts amounted to $15 million as of December
31, 1997, which represents the maximum potential loss exposure.

FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACTS

The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage
its exposure to foreign currency denominated intercompany loans and trade
payables and third party trade payables and receivables.  The contracts are
marked to market and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are
generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being
hedged.  At December 31, 1997, the Company held $1.3 billion of such contracts
which all mature in 1998.  The following table reflects the contracts
outstanding at December 31, 1997:

<PAGE>

                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                      FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
                                     (Unaudited)

FORWARD EXCHANGE CONTRACTS
(dollars in millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Average      Fair and
                                             Contract     Exchange     Carrying
                                              Amount        Rate        Value
                                             -------       ------       ------
<S>                                          <C>            <C>         <C>
RECEIVE U.S. DOLLARS IN EXCHANGE FOR 
THE FOLLOWING CURRENCIES:
German Deutsche Mark                         $  304        1.147        $ 1.9
Spanish Peseta                                  151        146.3          3.0
Japanese Yen                                    122        122.8          3.7
Dutch Guilder                                   106         1.98          0.5
British Pound                                    70         .597          2.1
Italian Lira                                     59        1,713          0.5
French Franc                                     33         5.82          0.5
Canadian Dollar                                  30         1.41          0.1
Australian Dollar                                24        1.439          0.4
Brazilian Real                                   22        1.037         (0.2)
Taiwan Dollar                                    18        30.43          1.0
Greek Drachma                                    16        280.5         (0.3)
Hong Kong Dollar                                 13        7.734         (0.1)
Irish Punt                                       12         .671         (0.1)
All other currencies                            112          N/A          4.2
                                             ------                     -----
                                              1,092                      17.2
                                             ------                     -----

RECEIVE DUTCH GUILDERS IN EXCHANGE FOR
THE FOLLOWING CURRENCIES:
British Pound                                    74         .308         (1.2)
French Franc                                     32         2.97          0.0
Swiss Franc                                      24         .716          0.0
Portuguese Escudo                                17        91.18          0.0
Irish Punt                                       17         .341          0.0
Japanese Yen                                     14        62.06          0.4
Canadian Dollar                                   9         .715          0.0
Belgian Franc                                     9        18.31          0.1
Taiwan Dollar                                     8        15.28          0.5
All other currencies                             11          N/A          0.2
                                             ------                     -----
                                                215                       0.0
All other                                         5          N/A          0.7
                                             ------                     -----
Total                                        $1,312                     $17.9
                                             ======                     =====
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                    Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries
                                       
                               FINANCIAL REVIEW


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SALES
The following table details the components of sales growth by industry segment
and geographic area for the last three years:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           Components of Change %
                                Total % --------------------------
WORLDWIDE SALES                 Change   Price   Volume   Exchange
                                ------  ------   ------   --------
<S>                              <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>
Total Worldwide
     1997 vs. 1996                7.9     0.5     10.4    (3.0)
     1996 vs. 1995               10.0     0.1     11.5    (1.6)
     1995 vs. 1994                9.4    (0.1)     8.0     1.5 
Domestic
     1997 vs. 1996               10.0     0.8      9.2       -
     1996 vs. 1995               10.9     0.1     10.8       -
     1995 vs. 1994                6.2    (0.8)     7.0       -
International
     1997 vs. 1996                4.6       -     12.2    (7.6)
     1996 vs. 1995                8.7     0.1     12.5    (3.9)
     1995 vs. 1994               14.5     1.1      9.5     3.9

PHARMACEUTICAL AND 
  NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS
Total Worldwide
     1997 vs. 1996                9.8     1.8     10.3    (2.3)
     1996 vs. 1995               12.0     1.5     11.9    (1.4)
     1995 vs. 1994               13.7     1.0     12.1     0.6
Domestic
     1997 vs. 1996               10.1     2.0      8.1       -
     1996 vs. 1995               12.8     1.5     11.3       -
     1995 vs. 1994                9.0     0.1      8.9       -
International
     1997 vs. 1996                9.2     1.4     14.5    (6.7)
     1996 vs. 1995               10.6     1.5     13.2    (4.1)
     1995 vs. 1994               23.6     2.9     18.8     1.9
     
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                             FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                              <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>
HOSPITAL AND 
  LABORATORY PRODUCTS
Total Worldwide
     1997 vs. 1996                5.4    (1.4)    10.7    (3.9) 
     1996 vs. 1995                7.4    (1.7)    10.8    (1.7)
     1995 vs. 1994                4.2    (1.3)     3.0     2.5 
Domestic
     1997 vs. 1996               10.0    (1.3)    11.3       -
     1996 vs. 1995                7.9    (2.2)    10.1       -
     1995 vs. 1994                2.1    (2.1)     4.2       -
International
     1997 vs. 1996                0.1    (1.4)     9.9    (8.4)
     1996 vs. 1995                6.8    (1.2)    11.7    (3.7)
     1995 vs. 1994                6.9    (0.5)     1.9     5.5 
     
</TABLE>

Sales of new products in the pharmaceutical and nutritional segment in 1997 are
estimated to be $397 million.  New product sales in the hospital and
laboratories segment are estimated to be $545 million.   Sales in international
markets represented approximately 40 percent of worldwide sales in 1997, 1996
and 1995. 

     The Company holds patents on Hytrin in the United States and several major
markets throughout the world.  The Company is facing a number of patent
challenges from generic manufacturers in the United States, and the ultimate
outcome of this litigation cannot be predicted.


<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                           FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)


     The classes of products which contributed at least 10 percent to
consolidated net sales in at least one of the last three years were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                         <C>       <C>       <C>
(dollars in millions)        1997      1996      1995 
- --------------------        ------    ------    ------
Anti-Infectives             $1,510    $1,407    $1,291
Adult Nutritionals           1,240     1,226     1,172
Infant Formula               1,166     1,153     1,109
</TABLE>

Increases in anti-infectives and adult nutritionals were primarily due to unit
increases.  Worldwide sales of infant formula increased in 1997 and 1996 due to
unit increases, and decreased in 1995 primarily due to unit decreases.

OPERATING EARNINGS
Gross profit margins (sales less cost of products sold, including freight and 
distribution expenses) were 57.5 percent of net sales in 1997, 57.0 percent 
of sales in 1996, and 56.8 percent in 1995.  The increases in gross profit 
margins were due primarily to favorable product mix, especially higher sales 
of pharmaceuticals, price, and productivity improvements, partially offset by 
higher project expenses for new products, higher manufacturing capacity costs 
for anticipated unit growth, and the effects of inflation and competitive 
pricing pressures in some product lines.  Gross profit margins were 
unfavorably affected by the relatively stronger U.S. dollar in 1997 and 1996, 
and were favorably impacted in 1995 by the relatively weaker U.S. dollar.  In 
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula 
under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, 
Infants, and Children (WIC).  The WIC rebate programs continue to have a 
negative effect on the gross profit margins of this portion of the infant 
formula business.

     Research and development expense increased to $1.3 billion in 1997, and 
represented 11.0 percent of net sales in 1997, compared to 10.9 percent of 
sales in 1996, and 10.7 percent in 1995.  Research and development includes 
charges for the acquisition of certain technologies.  Research and 
development expenditures continue to be concentrated on pharmaceutical and 
diagnostic products.

<PAGE>


                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                           FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)


     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 9.2 percent in 1997,
net of the favorable effect of the relatively stronger U.S. dollar of 
3.3 percent, compared to increases of 10.3 in 1996, and 8.6 percent in 1995.  
The increases reflect additional selling and marketing to support new product
launches.

INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense increased in 1997 and 1996 due primarily to a higher level
of borrowings as a result of the purchase of certain parenteral products
businesses of Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 1997, and MediSense, Inc. in 1996.

OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET
Other (income) expense, net, includes a net foreign exchange gain of 
$(9.0) million in 1997, and losses of $21.8 million in 1996 and $25.2 million
in 1995, including net exchange (gains) losses on foreign currency contracts. 
These contracts were purchased to manage the Company's exposure to foreign 
currency rate changes.  Other (income) expense, net, also includes the Company's
share of the net income from joint ventures, primarily TAP Holdings Inc. of 
$189 million, $130 million, and $75 million in 1997, 1996, and 1995, 
respectively, as well as minority interest expense. 


<PAGE>


                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                           FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)


TAXES ON EARNINGS
The Company's effective income tax rate was 29.0 percent for 1997, and 29.5
percent for 1996 and 1995.  The tax rate for 1997 was reduced primarily as a
result of the provisions of The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997.  In addition, all
three years' tax rates were unfavorably impacted by the reduction in tax
incentive grants for Puerto Rico operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

CASH FLOW
The Company expects positive cash flow from operating activities to continue to
approximate or exceed the Company's capital expenditures and cash dividends.

DEBT AND CAPITAL
The Company has maintained its favorable bond ratings (AAA by Standard & Poor's
Corporation and Aa1 by Moody's Investors Service) and continues to have readily
available financial resources, including unused domestic lines of credit of $1.5
billion at December 31, 1997.  These lines of credit support domestic commercial
paper borrowing arrangements.

     Under a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 1996, the Company may may issue up to $400 million of debt
securities. 

     During the last three years, the Company purchased 54,670,000 of its common
shares at a cost of $2.6 billion, including 1.3 million shares of the 15 million
shares authorized for purchase by the Board of Directors in December, 1997.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Capital expenditures of $1.0 billion in 1997, $949 million in 1996, and
$947 million in 1995, were principally for upgrading and expanding manufacturing
and research and development facilities in both segments, for laboratory
instruments and hospital equipment placed with customers, and for administrative
support facilities.  This level of capital expenditures is expected to continue,
with an increased proportion dedicated to the hospital and laboratory products
segment.

<PAGE>


                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                             FINANCIAL REVIEW (CONTINUED)


BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

In 1997, the Company acquired certain parenteral products businesses of 
Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc., for approximately $200 million.  A substantial 
portion of the purchase price was allocated to goodwill, which will be 
amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years.  In 1996, the Company 
acquired all of the outstanding shares of MediSense, Inc., a manufacturer of 
blood glucose self-testing products.  Of the cash purchase price of 
approximately $867 million, $219 million was allocated to goodwill; $635 
million was allocated to other intangible assets; and $37 million was charged 
against earnings for in-process research and development.  Goodwill and other 
intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over 25 to 40 
years. Had these acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the previous years, 
consolidated sales and income would not have been significantly different 
from reported amounts.

LEGISLATIVE ISSUES

The Company's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial
government regulation.  The Company expects debate to continue at both the
federal and state level over the availability, method of delivery, and payment
for health care products and services.  The Company believes that if legislation
is enacted, it could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of
price increases for medical products and services.  International operations are
also subject to a significant degree of government regulation.  It is not
possible to predict the extent to which the Company or the health care industry
in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future.  A more
complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, in the
Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is available upon request.

YEAR 2000

The Company is currently addressing the impact of the year 2000 issue.  
Expenditures relating to this are expensed as incurred.  The Company does not 
expect a significant impact on the Company's ongoing results of operations.

PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 -- A CAUTION CONCERNING
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995, the Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements or
projections made by the Company, including those made in this document, are
subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
materially from those projected.  Economic, competitive, governmental,
technological and other factors that may affect the Company's operations are
discussed in Exhibit 99.1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.

<PAGE>

                         Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                          SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                               Year Ended December 31

                      (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            1997        1996         1995        1994        1993
                                         ---------    --------     --------     -------     -------
<S>                                      <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>
Summary of Operations: 
Net Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $11,883.5    11,013.5     10,012.2     9,156.0     8,407.8
Cost of products sold . . . . . . . . .  $ 5,045.7     4,732.0      4,325.8     3,993.8     3,684.7
Research and development. . . . . . . .  $ 1,302.4     1,204.8      1,072.7       963.5       881.0
Selling, general and administrative . .  $ 2,685.0     2,459.6      2,230.7     2,054.5     1,988.2
Operating earnings  . . . . . . . . . .  $ 2,850.4     2,617.1      2,382.9     2,144.2     1,924.0
Interest expense. . . . . . . . . . . .  $   134.6        95.4         69.5        49.7        54.3
Interest income . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   (47.7)      (44.5)       (51.8)      (36.9)      (37.8)
Other (income) expense, net . . . . . .  $  (186.3)     (103.4)       (30.2)      (35.3)      (35.7)
Earnings before taxes . . . . . . . . .  $ 2,949.9     2,669.6      2,395.3     2,166.7     1,943.2
Taxes on earnings . . . . . . . . . . .  $   855.5       787.5        706.6       650.0       544.1
Net earnings  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 2,094.5     1,882.0      1,688.7     1,516.7     1,399.1
Basic earnings per common share   . . .  $    2.72        2.41         2.12        1.87        1.69
Diluted earnings per common share   . .  $    2.68        2.38         2.10        1.85        1.67

Financial Position:
Working capital . . . . . . . . . . . .  $     3.7       137.2        436.4       400.5       490.6
Investment securities maturing after 
  one year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   631.0       665.6        422.5       316.2       221.8
Net property and equipment. . . . . . .  $ 4,569.7     4,461.5      4,249.5     3,920.9     3,511.0
Total assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $12,061.1    11,125.6      9,412.6     8,523.7     7,688.6
Long-term debt. . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   938.0       932.9        435.2       287.1       306.8
Shareholders' investment. . . . . . . .  $ 4,998.7     4,820.2      4,396.8     4,049.4     3,674.9
Return on shareholders' investment. . .  %    42.7        40.8         40.0        39.3        39.8
Book value per share. . . . . . . . . .  $    6.54        6.22         5.58        5.04        4.48

Other Statistics:
Gross profit margin . . . . . . . . . .  %    57.5        57.0         56.8        56.4        56.2
Research and development to net sales .  %    11.0        10.9         10.7        10.5        10.5
Net cash from operating activities. . .  $ 2,628.8     2,382.1      1,965.6     2,212.1     1,846.9
Capital expenditures. . . . . . . . . .  $ 1,007.3       949.0        947.0       929.5       952.7
Cash dividends declared per common share $    1.08         .96          .84         .76         .68
Common shares outstanding (in thousands)   764,094     774,449      787,307     803,280     821,130
Number of common shareholders . . . . .    102,981      99,513       89,831      86,324      82,947
Number of employees . . . . . . . . . .     54,487      52,817       50,241      49,464      49,659
Sales per employee (in dollars) . . . .  $ 218,097     208,521      199,283     185,105     169,312
Market price per share-high . . . . . .  $  69 1/4      57 3/8       44 3/4          34      30 7/8
Market price per share-low. . . . . . .  $  49 3/4      38 1/8       30 5/8      25 3/8      22 5/8
Market price per share-close. . . . . .  $  65 1/2      50 3/4       41 5/8      32 5/8      29 5/8

</TABLE>

<PAGE>

                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                 SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (CONTINUED)

                            Year Ended December 31

                  (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                1992        1991         1990        1989        1988
                                              --------    --------     --------     -------     -------
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>
Summary of Operations: 
Net Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $7,851.9     6,876.6      6,158.7     5,379.8     4,937.0
Cost of products sold . . . . . . . . . . . . $3,505.3     3,140.0      2,910.1     2,556.7     2,353.2
Research and development. . . . . . . . . . . $  772.4       666.3        567.0       501.8       454.6
Selling, general and administrative . . . . . $1,833.2     1,513.3      1,275.6     1,100.2     1,027.2
Operating earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,526.0     1,557.0      1,406.0     1,221.1     1,102.0
Interest expense. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $   53.0        63.8         91.4        74.4        85.0
Interest income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $  (42.3)      (45.1)       (51.6)      (73.8)      (69.4)
Other (income) expense, net . . . . . . . . . $   48.5        (5.9)        15.5        26.3        30.9
Earnings before taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,738.8     1,544.2      1,350.7     1,194.2     1,055.5
Taxes on earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $  499.7       455.5        384.9       334.4       303.5
Net earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,239.1     1,088.7        965.8       859.8       752.0
Basic earnings per common share . . . . . . . $   1.47        1.27         1.11         .96         .83
Diluted earnings per common share . . . . . . $   1.45        1.25         1.09         .95         .83

Financial Position:
Working capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $  449.2       661.7        460.0       719.2       913.3
Investment securities maturing after 
  one year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $  270.6       340.2        314.0       300.0       285.7
Net property and equipment. . . . . . . . . . $3,099.2     2,662.1      2,375.8     2,090.2     1,952.6
Total assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $6,941.2     6,255.3      5,563.2     4,851.6     4,825.1
Long-term debt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $  110.0       125.1        134.8       146.7       349.3
Shareholders' investment. . . . . . . . . . . $3,347.6     3,203.0      2,833.6     2,726.4     2,464.6
Return on shareholders' investment. . . . . . %   37.8        36.1         34.7        33.1        33.0
Book value per share. . . . . . . . . . . . . $   4.00        3.77         3.30        3.08        2.74

Other Statistics:
Gross profit margin . . . . . . . . . . . . %   55.4        54.3         52.7        52.5        52.3
Research and development to net sales . . . %    9.8         9.7          9.2         9.3         9.2
Net cash from operating activities. . . . . $1,388.8     1,453.2      1,200.9       959.9       965.4
Capital expenditures. . . . . . . . . . . . $1,007.2       732.8        629.5       501.5       521.2
Cash dividends declared per common share. . $    .60         .50          .42         .35         .30
Common shares outstanding (in thousands). .  836,052     850,530      858,282     884,958     899,384
Number of common shareholders . . . . . . .   75,703      56,541       49,827      45,361      46,324
Number of employees . . . . . . . . . . . .   48,118      45,694       43,770      40,929      38,751
Sales per employee (in dollars) . . . . . . $163,180     150,492      140,706     131,441     127,403
Market price per share-high . . . . . . . . $ 34 1/8      34 3/4       23 1/8      17 5/8      13 1/8
Market price per share-low. . . . . . . . . $ 26 1/8      19 5/8       15 5/8      11 1/2      10 3/4
Market price per share-close. . . . . . . . $ 30 3/8      34 3/8       22 1/2      17          12
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


                       Abbott Laboratories and Subsidiaries

                  SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (CONTINUED)

                            Year Ended December 31

                   (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                1987
                                              --------
<S>                                           <C>
Summary of Operations:      
Net Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $4,387.9
Cost of products sold . . . . . . . . . . .   $2,101.9
Research and development. . . . . . . . . .   $  361.3
Selling, general and administrative . . . .   $  919.0
Operating earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . .   $1,005.7
Interest expense. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $   77.6
Interest income . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $  (56.7)
Other (income) expense, net . . . . . . . .   $   47.7
Earnings before taxes . . . . . . . . . . .   $  937.1
Taxes on earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $  304.5
Net earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $  632.6
Basic earnings per common share . . . . . .   $    .69
Diluted earnings per common share . . . . .   $    .69

Financial Position:
Working capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $  668.7
Investment securities maturing after 
  one year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $  292.9
Net property and equipment. . . . . . . . .   $1,741.6
Total assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $4,385.7
Long-term debt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $  271.0
Shareholders' investment. . . . . . . . . .   $2,093.5
Return on shareholders' investment. . . . .   %   32.7
Book value per share. . . . . . . . . . . .   $   2.31

Other Statistics:
Gross profit margin . . . . . . . . . . . .  %    52.1
Research and development to net sales . . .  %     8.2
Net cash from operating activities. . . . .  $   885.6
Capital expenditures. . . . . . . . . . . .  $   432.7
Cash dividends declared per common share. .  $     .25
Common shares outstanding (in thousands). .    906,924
Number of common shareholders . . . . . . .     45,822
Number of employees . . . . . . . . . . . .     37,828
Sales per employee (in dollars) . . . . . .  $ 115,995
Market price per share-high . . . . . . . .  $  16 3/4
Market price per share-low. . . . . . . . .  $  10
Market price per share-close. . . . . . . .  $  12

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                      - 1 -


                                       EXHIBIT


                        SUBSIDIARIES OF ABBOTT LABORATORIES

     The following is a list of subsidiaries of the Company.  Abbott
Laboratories is not a subsidiary of any other corporation.

                                                                    STATE OF
DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARIES                                             INCORPORATION
- ---------------------                                             -------------
Abbott Chemicals Plant, Inc.                                      Puerto Rico

Abbott Health Products, Inc.                                      Delaware

Abbott Home Infusion Services                                     New York
  of New York, Inc.

Abbott International Ltd.                                         Delaware

Abbott International Ltd. of Puerto Rico                          Puerto Rico

Abbott Laboratories International Co.                             Illinois

Abbott Laboratories Pacific Ltd.                                  Illinois

Abbott Laboratories (Puerto Rico)
  Incorporated                                                    Puerto Rico

Abbott Laboratories Residential
  Development Fund, Inc.                                          Illinois

Abbott Laboratories Services Corp.                                Illinois

Abbott Trading Company, Inc.                                      Virgin Islands

Abbott Universal Ltd.                                             Delaware

CMM Transportation, Inc.                                          Delaware

Corporate Alliance, Inc.                                          Delaware

Fuller Research Corporation                                       Delaware

Laser Surgery Partnership                                         Illinois
<PAGE>

                                      - 2 -


MediSense, Inc.                                                   Massachusetts

MediSense Import/Export Inc.                                      Massachusetts

MediSense International, Inc.                                     Delaware 

Medlase Holding Corporation                                       Delaware

North Shore Properties, Inc.                                      Delaware

Oximetrix de Puerto Rico, Inc.                                    Delaware

Oximetrix, Inc.                                                   Delaware

Solartek Products, Inc.                                           Delaware

Sorenson Research Co., Inc.                                       Utah

Swan-Myers, Incorporated                                          Indiana

TAP Holdings Inc.                                                 Delaware

TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc.                                          Delaware

Tobal Products Incorporated                                       Illinois

                                                                  COUNTRY
                                                                  IN WHICH
FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES                                              ORGANIZED
- --------------------                                              ---------
Abbott Laboratories Argentina, S.A.                               Argentina

MediSense Australia Pty Ltd.                                      Australia

Abbott Australasia Pty. Limited                                   Australia

Abbott Laboratories Executive Superannuation                      Australia
  Pty. Limited

Abbott Laboratories Superannuation Pty. Limited                   Australia

MediSense Australia Pty. Ltd.                                     Australia

Abbott Gesellschaft m.b.H.                                        Austria
<PAGE>

                                      - 3 -

MediSense Austria GmbH                                           Austria

Abbott Hospitals Limited                                         Bahamas

Abbott Laboratories (Bangladesh) Ltd.                            Bangladesh

Abbott, S.A.                                                     Belgium

MediSense Belgium, BVBA                                          Belgium

Abbott Ireland                                                   Bermuda

Abbott Laboratorios do Brasil Ltda.                              Brazil

Abbott Laboratories Limited                                      Canada

MediSense Canada, Inc.                                           Canada

Abbott Laboratories de Chile
  Limitada                                                       Chile

Ningbo Asia-Pacific Biotechnology Ltd.                           China, People's
                                                                 Republic of

Abbott Laboratories de Colombia, S.A.                            Colombia

Abbott Laboratories s.r.o.                                       Czech Republic 
     
Abbott Laboratories A/S                                          Denmark

MediSense Danmark AS                                             Denmark

Abbott Laboratorios del Ecuador, S.A.                            Ecuador

Abbott, S.A. de C.V.                                             El Salvador

Abbott Investments Limited                                       England

Abbott Laboratories Limited                                      England

Abbott Laboratories Trustee
  Company Limited                                                England

MediSense (U.K.) Ltd.                                            England

Abbott Oy                                                        Finland
<PAGE>

                                      - 4 -

Abbott France S.A.                                               France

Alcyon Analyzer S. A.                                            France

MediSense France SARL                                            France

Abbott G.m.b.H.                                                  Germany

MediSense (Deutschland) GmbH                                     Germany

Abbott Diagnostics G.m.b.H.                                      Germany

Abbott Laboratories (Hellas) S.A.                                Greece

FAMAR Panos A. Marinopoulos S.A.                                 Greece

FAMAR Anonymous Industrial Co. of                                Greece
 Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetics

Abbott Grenada Limited                                           Grenada

Abbott Laboratorios, S.A.                                        Guatemala

Abbott Laboratories Limited                                      Hong Kong

Abbott Laboratories (Hungary) Ltd.                               Hungary

Abbott Laboratories (India) Limited                              India

Abind Healthcare Private Limited                                 India

P. T. Abbott Indonesia                                           Indonesia

Abbott Laboratories, Ireland,
  Limited                                                        Ireland

Abbott Ireland Ltd.                                              Ireland

Abbott S.p.A.                                                    Italy

Abbott West Indies Limited                                       Jamaica

Consolidated Laboratories Limited                                Jamaica

Abbott Japan K.K.                                                Japan
<PAGE>

                                      - 5 -


Dainabot Co., Ltd.                                               Japan

MediSense Japan Ltd.                                             Japan

Abbott Korea Limited                                             Korea

Abbott Middle East S.A.R.L.                                      Lebanon

Abbott Laboratories (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.                         Malaysia

Abbott Laboratories de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.                      Mexico

Abbott Laboratories (Mozambique)
  Limitada                                                       Mozambique

Abbott B.V.                                                      The Netherlands

Abbott Finance B.V.                                              The Netherlands

Abbott Holdings B.V.                                             The Netherlands

Abbott Laboratories B.V.                                         The Netherlands
 
Edisco B.V.                                                      The Netherlands
     
MediSense Europe B.V.                                            The Netherlands

MediSense Netherlands, B.V.                                      The Netherlands

Abbott Laboratories (N.Z.) Limited                               New Zealand

Abbott Laboratories Nigeria Limited                              Nigeria

Abbott Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited                           Pakistan

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.                                        Panama

Abbott Overseas, S.A.                                            Panama

Abbott Laboratorios S.A.                                         Peru

Abbott Laboratories                                              Philippines

l02 E. de los Santos Realty Co., Inc.                            Philippines

Union-Madison Realty Company, Inc.                               Philippines
<PAGE>


                                      - 6 -


Abbott Laboratories Sp. z.o.o.                                   Poland

Abbott Laboratorios, Limitada                                    Portugal

Abbott Laboratories (Singapore)
  Private Limited                                                Singapore

Abbott Laboratories South Africa
  (Pty.) Limited                                                 South Africa

Abbott Laboratories, S.A.                                        Spain

Abbott Cientifica, S.A.                                          Spain

Abbott Scandinavia A.B.                                          Sweden

MediSense Sverige AB                                             Sweden

Abbott A.G.                                                      Switzerland

Abbott Laboratories S.A.                                         Switzerland

Abbott Finance Company S.A.                                      Switzerland

MediSense AG                                                     Switzerland

Abbott Laboratories Taiwan Limited                               Taiwan

Abbott Laboratories Limited                                      Thailand

Abbott Laboratuarlari Ithalat Ihracat
  Ve Tecaret Anonim Sirketi                                      Turkey

Abbott Laboratories Uruguay Limitada                             Uruguay

Abbott Laboratories, C.A.                                        Venezuela

Medicamentos M & R, S.A.                                         Venezuela

Date:  as of January 28, 1998


1998 10K Exhibit

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS TWELVE MONTH YEAR-TO-DATE FINANCIAL INFORMATION
EXTRACTED FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES 1997 FORM 10K AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS
ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FORM 10K FILING.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1997
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1997
<CASH>                                         230,024
<SECURITIES>                                    28,986
<RECEIVABLES>                                1,949,732
<ALLOWANCES>                                   167,406
<INVENTORY>                                  1,279,900
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             5,038,208
<PP&E>                                       8,790,157
<DEPRECIATION>                               4,220,466
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                              12,061,068
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        5,034,468
<BONDS>                                        937,983
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                       907,106
<OTHER-SE>                                   4,091,571
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                12,061,068
<SALES>                                     11,883,462
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            11,883,462
<CGS>                                        5,045,678
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                5,045,678
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                             1,302,403<F1>
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                28,193
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             134,550
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              2,949,946
<INCOME-TAX>                                   855,484
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          2,094,462
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                 2,094,462
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     2.72
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     2.68
<FN>
<F1>OTHER EXPENSES CONSIST OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 99.1 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  Exhibit 99.1  
                                          
             CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Financial Review, incorporated herein by reference, and other sections of
this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on
management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  Words such as
"expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates,"
variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify these
forward-looking statements.  Certain factors, including but not limited to those
listed below, may cause actual results to differ materially from current
expectations, estimates, projections and from past results.

     -    Economic factors including changes in the rate of inflation, business
          conditions, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.

     -    Competitive factors, including: (i) pricing pressures, both in the
          United States and abroad, primarily from managed care groups and
          government agencies, (ii) the development of new products by
          competitors having lower prices or superior performance or that are
          otherwise competitive with the Company's current products, (iii)
          generic competition as the Company's products go off patent, (iv)
          technological advances and patents obtained by competitors and (v)
          problems with licensors, suppliers and distributors.

     -    The difficulties or delays in bringing new products to market due to
          any one or more of the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new
          product development, including: (i) efficacy or safety concerns
          (whether or not scientifically justified), (ii) the inability to
          obtain regulatory approvals, (iii) difficulty in manufacturing or
          excessive manufacturing costs or (iv) the infringement of the patents
          or intellectual property rights of others.


<PAGE>

     -    Governmental action including: (i) new laws, regulations and judicial
          decisions related to health care availability, method of delivery and
          payment for health care products and services, (ii) changes in the
          Federal Food and Drug Administration and foreign regulatory approval
          processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and
          result in lost market opportunity, (iii) new laws, regulations and
          judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing and (iv) changes in
          the tax laws relating to the Company's operations.

     -    Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns with respect to marketed
          products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product
          recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.

     -    Legal difficulties, including product liability claims, claims
          asserting antitrust violations, disputes over intellectual property
          rights (including patents) and environmental matters, any of which
          could preclude commercialization or products or adversely affect
          profitability.

     -    Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
          Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission or
          the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

     -    Changes in costs or expenses, including variations resulting from
          changes in product mix, the effects of acquisitions, dispositions or
          other events occurring in connection with evolving business
          strategies.

No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate or projection contained
in a forward-looking statement can be achieved.  Readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. 
The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to
forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
