-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Hd+fgEYpCM2DdqqlCBED3UhatRVd0O8awogseouMbW966Lo8+TtI6dvGuUBtvb6L
 cT84ndJ6mbaQQph0zp7nYw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001017062-97-001764.txt : 19970930
<SEC-HEADER>0001017062-97-001764.hdr.sgml : 19970930
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001017062-97-001764
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19970630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970929
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		97687694

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY #BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2068828080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY - BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
===============================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                        
                               -----------------

                                   FORM 10-K

              [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1997
                                        
              [_]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                        
                    For the Transition Period From _____ to ____

                             --------------------
                                        
                         Commission File Number 0-14278
                                        

                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

        Washington                                          91-1144442
 (State of incorporation)                                   (I.R.S. ID)

              One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington   98052-6399


                                (425) 882-8080

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

                                 Common Stock

     2 3/4% Convertible Exchangeable Principal-Protected Preferred Stock. 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]   No [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [_]

    The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of September 12, 1997 was $106,179,466,860.

    The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
September 12, 1997 was 1,212,567,717.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

      Portions of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by
      reference into Parts I, II and IV.


    Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated September 26, 1997 to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held November 14, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

===============================================================================
<PAGE>
 
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION


                                   FORM 10-K

                    For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1997

                                     INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
Part I
<S>             <C>                                                                                     <C>
 
Item 1.         Business.............................................................................    1
Item 2.         Properties...........................................................................   10
Item 3.         Legal Proceedings....................................................................   10
Item 4.         Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..................................   10
 
Part II
 
Item 5.         Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters.................   11
Item 6.         Selected Financial Data..............................................................   11
Item 7.         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition   11
Item 8.         Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..........................................   11
Item 9.         Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures   11
 
Part III
 
Item 10.        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...................................   12
Item 11.        Executive Compensation...............................................................   13
Item 12.        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.......................   13
Item 13.        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.......................................   13
 
Part IV
 
Item 14.        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K......................   14
Signatures      .....................................................................................   15
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I
 
Item 1.   Business

GENERAL
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" or "Microsoft") was founded as a
partnership in 1975 and incorporated in 1981. Microsoft develops, manufactures,
licenses, sells, and supports a wide range of software products, including
scalable operating systems for information appliances, personal computers (PCs)
and servers; server applications for client/server environments; business and
consumer productivity applications; software development tools; and Internet and
intranet software and technologies. The Company has recently expanded its
interactive content efforts, including entertainment and information software
programs, MSN(TM), The Microsoft(R) Network online service, Internet-based
services, and alliances with companies involved with other forms of digital
interactivity. Microsoft also sells personal computer input devices and books,
and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products.

Microsoft's business strategy emphasizes the development of a broad line of
software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple
channels of distribution. The Company is divided into three main groups:
the Product Group, the Sales and Support Group, and the Operations Group.

The Platforms Product Group is comprised of five primary divisions, each
responsible for a particular area of platform software development and
marketing. The Personal Systems Division develops PC operating systems. The
Business Systems Division develops server operating systems and server
applications. The Internet Client and Collaboration Division develops Web
browser technologies and e-mail, editing, and collaboration products. The
Developer Tools Division creates software development tools. The Consumer
Platforms Division develops system software for non-PC devices, multimedia
devices, and digital authoring environments.

The Applications and Content Product Group creates and markets productivity
programs, interactive entertainment and information products, desktop finance
products, and PC input devices. The Desktop Applications Division creates
business productivity applications and products designed for the home, school,
and the small business market. Interactive Media offerings include children's
titles, games, reference sources, online informational services, and MSN. The
Desktop Finance Division develops personal finance products. The Input Device
Division creates PC peripherals.

Microsoft has a research lab dedicated to creating new technology in support of
the Company's vision for the evolution of personal computing.

The Sales and Support Group is responsible for building long-term business
relationships with customers. This group is organized to serve various customer
types, including original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), end-users,
organizations, enterprises, application developers, and Internet content
providers (ICPs) and infrastructure owners. Large enterprises are offered
tailored license programs, enterprisewide support, consulting services, and
other specialized services. The group manages the channels that serve customers
by working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. In addition to the OEM
channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: U.S. and
Canada, Europe, and Other International. The group supports the Company's
products with technical support for end-users, developers, and organizations.

The Operations Group is responsible for managing business operations and overall
business planning. This includes the process of manufacturing and delivering
finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such as finance,
administration, human resources, and legal; and the publishing efforts of
Microsoft Press.

PRODUCTS                                                        
PERSONAL SYSTEMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Personal Systems Division has overall responsibility for the Microsoft
Windows(R) PC operating systems. Operating system software performs a variety of
functions, such as allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software
execution, managing information and communication flow among the various PC
components, and enabling end-users to access files and information.

WINDOWS 95. Microsoft's primary personal operating system, the successor to
MS-DOS(R) and Windows 3.1, was released commercially in August 1995; periodic
service releases, system updates, and new device drivers have been made
available to PC OEMs and to end-users via the Internet on the Company's web
site, http://www.microsoft.com. Windows 95 is a fully integrated, multitasking
32-bit operating system, designed to be 
<PAGE>
 
compatible with Intel microprocessor-based PCs, most hardware devices, and
Windows 3.1 and MS-DOS applications.

WINDOWS NT WORKSTATION. Also a fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit operating
system, Windows NT(R) Workstation provides greater security, robustness and
portability. Windows NT Workstation is a multithreaded operating system for
mission critical computing which provides the same features and applications
programming interfaces (APIs) for Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors.

MS-DOS. MS-DOS is a single-user, single-tasking operating system designed for
Intel microprocessor-based PCs. MS-DOS was introduced in 1981 and was
preinstalled by OEMs on most PCs shipped prior to the release of Windows 95.

WINDOWS 3.1. Microsoft Windows 3.1 provides a graphical user interface and other
enhancements for MS-DOS-based PCs. Windows 3.1 supports 16-bit Windows-based
applications, and offers ease of use, aesthetic appeal, and straightforward
integration into corporate computing environments. Windows for Workgroups 3.11
integrates network and workgroup functionality directly into the Windows
operating system.

BUSINESS SYSTEMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Business Systems Division develops and markets Windows NT Server and related
Microsoft BackOffice(R) and Internet server-based applications. Server
operating systems are enterprise-wide platforms for building and deploying
distributed applications for networked PCs.

WINDOWS NT SERVER. Windows NT Server is a powerful operating system foundation
for both server applications and file and print sharing, with extensive network
management features, administration tools, security, and high availability.
Windows NT Server provides a platform for business critical applications and
databases, connectivity, system management, and e-mail servers. The operating
system integrates Web services such as Microsoft Internet Information Server, a
server used to manage intranet and Internet functionality and Microsoft
FrontPage(R) Web site creation and management tool.

MICROSOFT BACKOFFICE. Based on Windows NT Server, the Microsoft BackOffice
family of server applications is an integrated series of software products that
include services for file and print, applications, database, messaging,
groupware, desktop management, Internet access, transaction processing, and host
connectivity. BackOffice enables organizations to share information,
collaborate, and manage and deploy business-critical applications. Microsoft
Exchange Server provides e-mail, group scheduling, and integrated groupware
capabilities; Microsoft SQL Server(TM) manages and stores data; Microsoft Proxy
Server creates a single, secure gateway to the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server
provides connectivity to host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems
Management Server centrally manages this distributed environment.

INTERNET SERVER TOOLS. The Company also offers Internet servers based on Windows
NT Server. In addition to the Web services technologies included in Windows NT
Server, the Company also offers Microsoft Site Server, which allows a
comprehensive management of sophisticated web sites and their content. Microsoft
Transaction Server is a component-based transaction processing system for
developing, deploying, and managing scalable enterprise, Internet, and intranet
server applications.

INTERNET CLIENT AND COLLABORATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Internet Client and Collaboration Division develops Internet browser
technology and e-mail and group collaboration products.

INTERNET SOFTWARE. The division has overall development and marketing
responsibility for Microsoft Internet Explorer, the Company's Internet browser.
It also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and
intranet applications and content, including ActiveX(TM) controls. Formerly
known as object linking and embedding (OLE) controls, ActiveX controls are
components (or objects) that can be inserted into a Web page or another
application which allow packaged functionality programmed elsewhere to be reused
and enables real-time, interactive content.

DEVELOPER TOOLS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
The Developer Tools Division provides software development tools and technical
information to Windows and Internet applications developers. These products and
services empower independent software developers, corporate developers,
solutions developers, and Webmasters to create a broad spectrum of applications,
primarily for Windows 95 and Windows NT, but also for the platform-independent
Internet and intranets.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOOLS AND COMPUTER LANGUAGES. Software development tools
and computer languages allow software developers to write programs in a
particular computer language and translate programs into a binary machine-
readable set of commands that activate and instruct PC hardware. The Company
develops and markets a number of software development environments, and language
compilers. Microsoft Visual C++(R) is the Company's development system for
Windows application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic(R) programming
system provides easy access to a wide variety of data sources by integrating the
Microsoft Access database engine and the ability to take advantage of
investments in commercial applications through ActiveX controls. Microsoft
Visual J++(TM), a development environment for Java applications and Internet
applets, contains a high productivity Integrated Development Environment and a
collection of integrated components to create, test, tune, and deploy Java code
on multiple platforms using ActiveX controls.

DEVELOPER INFORMATION. The Company provides third party software developers with
a wide range of technical and support information that assists them in
developing software products intended to run on Windows operating systems,
taking advantage of key technologies such as ActiveX controls and Windows 32-bit
APIs. Developers can subscribe to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN)
information service and receive periodic updates via CD-ROMs, magazines, and
several on-line information services.

CONSUMER PLATFORMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Consumer Platforms Division is developing software for non-PC devices, the
Broadcast PC, multimedia devices, and network multimedia.

NON-PC DEVICES. The division develops Windows CE, a scaleable Windows platform
for a broad range of communications, entertainment, and mobile computing
devices. The Windows CE operating system enables information appliances to
communicate with each other, share information with Windows PCs, and connect to
the Internet. Handheld PCs based on Windows CE are manufactured and sold by
various hardware OEMs and are designed to be companions to Windows-based PCs.

MULTIMEDIA DEVICES. In August 1997 Microsoft acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., an
online service that enables consumers to experience the Internet through their
televisions via set-top terminals based on WebTV technologies. Future versions
of the set-top terminals will use the Windows CE operating system.

The Consumer Platforms Division is also responsible for Softimage, which
develops, markets, and supports a family of interactive software products
enabling digital media producers to create and edit two- and three-dimensional
content for digital media productions. Softimage supplies 3D visualization
software for broadcast, film production, and other high-end animation
applications. In addition, Softimage has a product line of 2D visualization
software for use on high-end applications, including postproduction editing and
the integration of visual images, text, sound, and special effects technology.
These products are designed for the Windows NT and IRIX operating systems.

SOFTIMAGE 3D. Softimage(R) 3D provides three-dimensional animation software for
film and video professionals, animators, and artists who create and produce
high-end three-dimensional imagery for traditional and new media.

SOFTIMAGE DS. Softimage DS is a digital authoring environment blending 2D and 3D
graphics, digital video, and digital audio. The digital studio environment
accommodates many types of projects for digital multimedia such as high-end
advertising, entertainment, games, and integrated interactive multimedia.

DESKTOP APPLICATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which provides
the PC with instructions for the performance of productivity tasks such as
manipulating text, numbers, or graphics. The Company's desktop applications
software is designed for use by a broad class of end-users, regardless of
business, industry, or market segment. Primary examples of desktop applications
software are word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation graphics programs.
The Company's desktop applications programs are developed principally for
Windows and Macintosh operating systems.
<PAGE>
 
MICROSOFT OFFICE. Microsoft Office is a suite of software programs featuring
seamless integration of the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft
Office is based upon a document-centric concept, with common commands and
extensive use of cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office is available
in several versions, with certain combinations of products available for the
various operating system platforms. The most recent version for Windows,
Microsoft Office 97, has enhanced Internet features such as integration with
Microsoft Internet Explorer, a Web toolbar, the ability to save as an HTML
format, connectivity to other Office documents or web sites via hyperlinks, and
support for ActiveX controls.  Products offered in the various versions include
Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, the Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation
graphics program, Microsoft Outlook(TM), the Microsoft Access database,
Microsoft Bookshelf(R), and others.  The Microsoft Home Essentials(TM) suite is
marketed primarily toward users in the home.

MICROSOFT WORD. The Company's principal word processing program is Microsoft
Word. Versions of Microsoft Word provide graphical word processing features,
plus the ability to handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and
images imported from other software programs.

MICROSOFT EXCEL. The Company's spreadsheet program is Microsoft Excel. It is an
integrated spreadsheet with pivot table, database, and business graphics
capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and embedding of objects that
permits users to view and edit graphics or charts from other programs in the
worksheet in which the object is stored. Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities
can be linked to its spreadsheets to allow simultaneous changes to charts as
changes are made to the spreadsheets.

MICROSOFT POWERPOINT. Microsoft PowerPoint is a presentation graphics program
for producing transparencies, slides, overheads, and prints.

MICROSOFT ACCESS. Microsoft Access is a relational database management
application that provides access to structured business data. Database products
control the maintenance and utilization of structured data organized into a set
of records or files.

MICROSOFT OUTLOOK. The division also develops the Microsoft Outlook desktop
information management program, which manages e-mail, calendars, contacts,
tasks, and files on the PC. Outlook helps users communicate through e-mail and
share information by means of public folders, forms, and Internet connectivity.

MICROSOFT PROJECT. Microsoft Project is a critical path project scheduling and
resource allocation program. The product can perform as a budgeting, monitoring,
and cost estimating tool for large business projects and as a critical path and
schedule planning tool.

OTHER PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTS. The Company also offers other productivity
products, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Publisher, and Microsoft
FrontPage. Microsoft Works is an integrated software program that contains basic
word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy
exchange of information from one tool to another. Microsoft Publisher is an 
easy-to-use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Microsoft FrontPage is a 
Web site creation and management tool for Web sites on the Internet or 
intranets.

INTERACTIVE MEDIA
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Interactive Media Division develops and markets interactive entertainment
and information products across a variety of media, including the Internet, The
Microsoft Network, and CD-ROM.

LEARNING AND ENTERTAINMENT. Reference titles include Microsoft Encarta(R) and
Microsoft Bookshelf. The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends text in
articles with a wealth of innovative, interactive information presented through
animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf is a
multimedia reference library that integrates seven well-respected and
authoritative works, including a dictionary, world atlas, world almanac,
thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books of quotations.

Personal interest titles include Microsoft Cinemania(R), an interactive guide
to the movies with entries for 19,000 films, Microsoft Dinosaurs, musical
titles, and many others.

Titles for children include Microsoft Creative Writer, a full-featured creative
writing and publishing program. The Company also has a series of products based
on the popular children's book and television series, Scholastic's The Magic 
School Bus.

The Company offers a line of entertainment products. Microsoft Flight Simulator
is a popular aircraft flight simulation product available for Windows, MS-DOS,
and Macintosh operating systems. Games include Monster 
<PAGE>
 
Truck Madness(TM), Microsoft Golf, and other sports and action titles. Most
games are available for the Windows 95 environment.

INTERACTIVE SERVICE MEDIA. The Company is developing an online decision support
infrastructure for end-users in such fields as automobiles, retail,
entertainment, and travel. Microsoft CarPoint(TM) provides current and objective
information for new car purchases, including test drive reviews, dealer
invoices, and surround videos. Additionally, CarPoint features a new car buying
service. Comprised of a national network of dealers, this service refers
customers to nearby dealers. Microsoft Sidewalk(TM) is a personalized city guide
to local entertainment. The Sidewalk editorial team provides previews, reviews
and even customized suggestions about entertainment events in Seattle, New York,
Boston, and the Minneapolis, with city guides scheduled to launch in San
Francisco, Houston, Washington, D.C., San Diego, Denver, and Sydney, Australia.
Microsoft Expedia(TM) is a free travel service on the World Wide Web and MSN
which enables users to find low fares, book flights, make hotel reservations,
and rent cars. Expedia also offers a comprehensive source of information for
more than 330 destinations including photos, historical information, and local
details. Expedia Streets 98 and Expedia Trip Planner 98 are comprehensive route-
planning programs with detailed maps and road information for routes in North
America.

THE MICROSOFT NETWORK. MSN is Web-based interactive online service. MSN provides
easy and inexpensive access for users to a wide range of graphically rich online
content. The online service provides access to the Internet, electronic mail,
bulletin boards, and a myriad of additional services offered by Microsoft and by
independent content providers (ICPs).

JOINT VENTURES. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements to take
advantage of creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft
owns 50 percent of DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C., a software company that
develops interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the remaining
50 percent.  Microsoft owns 50 percent of MSNBC Cable L.L.C., a 24-hour cable
news and information channel; and 50 percent of MSNBC Interactive News L.L.C.,
an interactive online news service.  National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns
the remaining 50 percent of these two joint ventures.

DESKTOP FINANCE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft Money is a financial organization product that allows users to
computerize their household finances. Microsoft Money is available for systems
running Windows 95 and provides online home-banking services with numerous
different banks in the U.S.

Microsoft Investor is an online investing site that provides a comprehensive
offering of information and services designed to help personal investors make
investment decisions, track their securities and understand the market. A blend
of free and subscription-based services, Investor provides portfolio tracking
and analysis, company and mutual fund research, an investment finder, daily
editorial and market summaries, e-mail notifications and alerts, and access to
online trading through leading financial services firms.

PC INPUT DEVICES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's major input device is the Microsoft Mouse, a hand-held pointing
device that facilitates use of a PC. It can be used with MS-DOS and Windows
operating systems and works with most applications products from Microsoft and
other companies. Microsoft also offers a mouse designed for the home and a mouse
for young children. The Company also markets the Microsoft Natural(R) Keyboard,
an ergonomically designed keyboard. Additionally, Microsoft sells joysticks and
gamepads for use with PC games.

MICROSOFT PRESS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and other
software developers and about current developments in the industry. Books
published by Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted by
independent authors who submit their manuscripts to the Company for publication
and who receive royalties based on revenue generated by the book.

Microsoft Press contracts with an independent commercial printer for the
manufacturing of its books. Publisher's Resources, Inc. acts as the Company's
main fulfillment house in the United States, maintaining the majority of the
inventory of Microsoft Press(R) books. Books are marketed by independent sales
representatives and by Microsoft 
<PAGE>
 
Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous
international agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution of its
books. Microsoft Press has granted a publisher in England the right to
distribute English language versions of its books in all countries except the
United States, Canada, Central and South America, and certain Asian countries.
In most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with a book's manuscript,
and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and
distribution of the translated version.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PC software industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological
change, which requires constant attention to software technology trends and
shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace of change has
recently become even greater due to the surge of interest in the Internet, other
forms of online services, PC server-based networking, and new programming
languages, such as Java.

Most of the Company's software products are developed internally. The Company
also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees
third-party development and localization of certain products. Internal
development enables Microsoft to maintain closer technical control over the
products and gives the Company the freedom to designate which modifications and
enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. The Company
has created a substantial body of proprietary development tools and has evolved
development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools
and methodologies are also designed to simplify a product's portability among
different operating systems, microprocessors, or computers. Product
documentation is generally created internally.

The Company believes that a crucial factor in the success of a new product is
getting it to market quickly to respond to new user needs or advances in PCs,
servers, peripherals, and the Internet, without compromising product quality.
The Company strives to become informed at the earliest possible time about
changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design.

During fiscal years 1995, 1996, and 1997, the Company spent $860 million, $1.43
billion, and $1.93 billion, respectively, on product research and development
activities. Those amounts represented 14.5%, 16.5%, and 16.9%, respectively, of
revenue in each of those years excluding funding of joint venture activity. The
Company is committed to continue high expenditures for research and product
development.

LOCALIZATION
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to best serve the needs of users in foreign countries, Microsoft
"localizes" many of its products to reflect local languages and conventions. In
French versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are in French
and all monetary references are in French francs. Various Microsoft products
have been localized into more than 30 languages.

MANUFACTURING
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft contracts most of its manufacturing activity to third parties. Outside
manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products, documentation,
and hardware such as mouse pointing devices, keyboards, and joysticks. There are
other custom manufacturers in the event that outsourced manufacturing becomes
unavailable from current sources.

In recent years the Company's sales mix has shifted to OEM and corporate and
organizational licenses from packaged products. Online distribution of software
may increase in the future. During July 1996, Microsoft sold its domestic
manufacturing and distribution operation.

The Company's remaining manufacturing facilities are located in Puerto Rico and
Ireland. The Irish manufacturing facility replicates disks, assembles other
purchased parts, and packages final product. The Puerto Rico facility
manufactures CD-ROMs, assembles other purchased parts, and packages final
product. Quality control tests are performed on purchased parts, finished disks
and CD-ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used in
Microsoft products include disks or CD-ROMs, books, and multicolor printed
materials. The Company is often able to acquire component parts and materials on
a volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials,
supplies, and components.
<PAGE>
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing staff with several customer types,
including OEMs, end-users, organizations, enterprises, applications developers,
and Internet content providers (ICPs) and infrastructure owners. The Company's
sales and marketing group seeks to build long-term relationships with customers
of Microsoft products. In addition to the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major
geographic sales and marketing organizations: the U.S. and Canada, Europe, and
elsewhere in the world (Other International).

The OEM customer unit includes the sales force which works with original
equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software on their PCs.

The end-user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
end-users that make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use at work or
home. Most sales and marketing activities aimed at end-user customers are
performed by this unit, including developing and administering reseller
relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and
promotions; end-user marketing programs; support policies; and seminars, events,
and sales training for resellers. The key products marketed by the end-user
customer unit are the Company's desktop operating systems, desktop applications,
and interactive media products.

The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target
groups of users in small and medium organizations. The unit works with channel
partners such as distributors, aggregators, value-added resellers, and Solution
Providers to provide complete business solutions to this customer segment. The
unit's sales and marketing activities include providing technical training to
Solution Providers (described below) and channel resellers; developing support
policies; and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for
channel partners.

The enterprise customer unit has responsibility for sales and marketing
activities that target large organizations. The unit works directly with these
organizations, and through large account resellers, to create and support
enterprisewide, mission critical solutions for business computing needs.

The applications developer customer unit targets corporate developers and
independent software vendors (ISVs) who build business applications with a
development platform based on Microsoft Windows and BackOffice architecture. The
unit's sales and marketing activities include providing industry specific
technical training, seminars, and events for ISVs.

The Internet customer unit is responsible for introducing the Company's products
and technologies to the public infrastructure owners and ICPs. Infrastructure
owners include network operators (telephone companies, cable companies, Internet
service providers, etc.) who build, own, and operate the public networks and
ICPs who provide content for the Web.

FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISTRIBUTORS AND RESELLERS. The Company markets its products in the finished
goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors and
resellers. Distributors include CHS Electronics, Computer 2000, Ingram Micro,
Softbank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum and Stream
International. Microsoft has a network of field sales representatives and field
support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide
product training and sales support.

LARGE ACCOUNTS. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software
acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized to meet the
needs of large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include
technology specialists and influential end-users in large enterprises. Marketing
efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with the Microsoft network of
large account resellers.

SOLUTION PROVIDERS. Microsoft's Solution Providers program is a comprehensive
support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and
system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for
business computing solutions. The program supports value-added resellers (VARs),
system integrators, consultants, custom application developers, solution
developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content
providers, and sitebuilders (companies that build Web sites for other
companies), as well as technical support and training organizations. Under this
business partnership strategy, the Company provides sales and product
information, development services, early access to Microsoft products, and
customer support tools including priority telephone support, education, and
business development support. To ensure high-quality technical services for the
Company's products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required to have
Microsoft-certified professionals on staff.
<PAGE>
 
CONSULTING SERVICES. The Company's Consulting Services Division assists
customers in using the Company's computer operating systems, applications, and
communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps
create enterprisewide computing solutions for large corporate accounts.

INTERNATIONAL SALES SITES. The Company has established marketing and/or support
subsidiaries in more than 60 countries. Product is generally delivered by the
Company's owned or outsourced manufacturing operations.

The Company's international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject
to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as governmental
regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Microsoft hedges a portion of its foreign exchange risk.

OEM CHANNEL
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily to OEMs under agreements that
grant the OEMs the right to distribute copies of the Company's products with
their computers. The Company also markets certain desktop applications and
interactive media programs to OEMs under similar arrangements. In addition, the
Company markets the Microsoft Mouse and Natural Keyboard to OEMs for
distribution to buyers of their computers. In almost all cases, the products are
distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering
one or more of its products with virtually all of the major PC OEMs, including
AST Research, Acer, Compaq, Digital Equipment Corporation, Dell, Fujitsu,
Gateway 2000, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC, Packard Bell, Siemens, Toshiba, and
Vobis.

ADVERTISING
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms.
Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are
targeted to various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer media
(television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft
has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for
certain advertising expenditures. The Company maintains a broad advertising
campaign emphasizing the Microsoft brand identity.

CUSTOMERS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's customers include end-users, organizations, enterprises, ISPs,
application developers, and OEMs. Most end-users of Microsoft products are
individuals in businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and at
home. These end-users obtain Microsoft products primarily through distributors,
resellers, and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their
hardware. Notes to Financial Statements (see Item 8) describe customers that
represent more than 10% of the Company's revenue. The Company's practice is to
ship its products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from its customers
and, consequently, backlog is not significant.

PRODUCT SUPPORT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company provides product support coverage options to meet the needs of users
of Microsoft products. Support personnel are located in various sites in the
U.S. and around the world. Certain support is also supplied by qualified
third-party support organizations. The Company hires individuals with product
expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product
education and training, and consistent processes to deliver quality support for
Microsoft products. Coverage options range from standard no-charge toll
telephone support to fee-based offerings providing unlimited 800 number
telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products 24 hours
per day, 7 days per week.

Users have access to troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft's KnowledgeBase, a
library of thousands of technical articles that is updated regularly with useful
information regarding Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access to
KnowledgeBase via MSN, America Online, CompuServe, Prodigy, and the Internet.
Additionally, several support offerings include Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft
Developer Network information subscription services.

As a supplement or alternative to direct support, the Company enhances the 
third-party support channel by providing Microsoft Solution Providers with 
education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solution Providers include 
Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and 
certification on Microsoft
<PAGE>
 
products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide a wide spectrum of
multinational support, multivendor support, and integration services.

COMPETITION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PC software business is intensely competitive and subject to extremely rapid
technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition in all areas of its
business activity, including competition from many companies much larger than
Microsoft. The rapid pace of technological change constantly creates new
opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render
existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces constant competition
from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft's copyrighted
software products.

OPERATING SYSTEMS. Microsoft's operating system products face substantial
competition from a wide variety of companies. Major competitors such as IBM,
Apple Computer, Digital Equipment Corporation, Hewlett-Packard, Sun
Microsystems, and others are vertically integrated in both software development
and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they
preinstall on computers of their own manufacture. Many of these operating system
software products are also licensed to third-party OEMs for preinstallation on
their machines. Microsoft's operating system products compete with UNIX-based
operating systems from a wide range of companies including IBM, AT&T, Hewlett-
Packard, Sun, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants of UNIX run on a
wide variety of computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance as
desktop operating systems. As PC technology increasingly moves toward
connectivity and communications, Microsoft's operating system products will face
increased competition from network server operating systems such as Novell's
NetWare, Banyan's Vines, the many variants of UNIX, IBM's OS/2, "middleware"
products such as IBM's Lotus Notes, and intranet servers from Netscape, IBM,
Sun, and others.

BUSINESS SYSTEMS. The Company is a fairly recent entrant into the business of
providing enterprisewide computing solutions. Several competitors enjoy a larger
share of sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system
software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, Digital
Equipment, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun. Since legacy business systems are typically
support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantive support services.
Software developers that provide competing server applications for PC-based
distributed client/server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates,
Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer
connectivity servers. As mentioned above, there are numerous companies and
organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software which compete
against the Company's business systems. Additionally, IBM has a large installed
base of Lotus Notes and cc:Mail, both of which compete with the Company's
workgroup and mail products.

DESKTOP APPLICATIONS. The Company's competitors include many software
application vendors, such as IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Claris), Corel, and
local application developers in Europe and the Far East. IBM and Corel have
large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor products,
respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple
preinstall certain of their software products on various models of their PCs,
competing directly with Microsoft desktop application software.

DEVELOPER TOOLS. The Company's developer products compete against offerings from
Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun, Sybase, Symantec, and other companies.

NEWS SERVICES. The Company's MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition
from other 24-hour cable and Internet news organizations such as CNN and Fox
News Network. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such as newspapers
and broadcast TV and Internet news services.

CONSUMER PLATFORMS. A wide variety of companies develop operating systems for
information appliances, including Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software, and
others. The Company's nascent WebTV offerings and other multimedia consumer
products face competitors such as Sun, Oracle, NetChannel, and others. An
enormous range of companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies,
cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are
competing to make interactive services widely available to the home.

INTERNET PLATFORMS AND SERVICES. The advent of the Internet as a computing,
communication, and collaboration platform as well as a low cost and efficient
distribution vehicle increases competition and creates uncertainty as to future
technology directions. The Company faces intense competition in the development
and marketing of Internet (and intranet) software from a wide variety of
companies and organizations including IBM, Netscape, Novell, Oracle, Sun, and
many others. In addition, the very low barriers to entry on the Internet have
allowed numerous Web-based service companies to build significant businesses in
areas such as electronic mail, electronic commerce, 
<PAGE>
 
Web search engines, and information of numerous types. Competitors include
Netscape, Lycos, Yahoo, Excite, Infoseek, CitySearch, and many others.

ONLINE SERVICES. Microsoft's online services network, MSN, faces formidable
competition from America Online and other online networks, such as CompuServe
(the sale of which to America Online is pending), Prodigy, and impending
entrants. Additionally, MSN faces competition from online services that are
offered to users directly via the World Wide Web.

INTERACTIVE MEDIA. The Company's Interactive Media division faces many smaller
but focused and branded competitors, particularly in the areas of entertainment
and education. Consolidation in this area of software development has made
certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include Intuit, Broderbund,
Electronic Arts, The Learning Company (including Softkey, MECC, and Compton's),
Voyager, CUC International (including Sierra On Line, Knowledge Adventures, and
Davidson Associates), and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own
branded content, such as Disney and Lucas Arts.

Additionally, PC-based games are increasingly competing head-to-head against
games created for proprietary systems such as Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and
Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers,
since computers are typically sold with a keyboard and mouse, and other
manufacturers of these devices.

A number of Microsoft's most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun,
Oracle, and Netscape, have jointly embarked upon various technology development
and marketing initiatives that are intended to increase customer demand for
products from these companies. These initiatives relate in part to efforts to
move software from individual PCs to centrally-managed servers. While the likely
technological and business success of such "thin client" strategies is currently
unknown, widespread adoption of such computing systems would present significant
challenges to the Company's historical business model.

The Company's competitive position may be adversely affected by one or more of
these factors in the future, particularly in view of the fast pace of
technological change in the software industry.


EMPLOYEES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of June 30, 1997, the Company employed 22,232 people on a full-time basis,
15,835 in the U.S. and 6,397 internationally.  Of the total, 8,059 were in
product research and development, 11,074 in sales, marketing, and support, 1,115
in manufacturing and distribution, and 1,984 in finance and administration.
Microsoft's success is highly dependent on its ability to attract and retain
qualified employees.  Competition for employees is intense in the software
industry.  To date, the Company believes it has been successful in its efforts
to recruit qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue
to be as successful in the future.  None of the Company's employees are subject
to collective bargaining agreements.  The Company believes relations with its
employees are excellent.

Item 2.  Properties

The Company's corporate offices consist of approximately 3.6 million square feet
of office building space located in King County, Washington.  There are two
sites that total approximately 300 acres of land.  The Company is constructing
three office buildings comprising approximately 565,000 square feet of space.
Occupancy on this site will be phased starting in the winter of 1997 and
completed by spring of 1998.  Additionally, construction is continuing on
another set of office buildings with approximately 423,000 square feet of space.
This site will be occupied in the winter of 1999. The Company owns all of its
corporate campus.

The Company leases a 45,000 square foot disk duplication facility in Humacao,
Puerto Rico.  The Puerto Rico facility, which began operation in April 1990, is
leased under a 10-year lease, with an option to renew for an additional 10
years.  The Company's European manufacturing operation consists of a 161,000
square foot facility situated on 12 acres in Dublin, Ireland.  The Ireland site
also includes office buildings with 157,000 square feet for international
localization.  The Ireland facilities are fully owned by the Company.  In Les
Ulis, France, the Company owns a 199,000 square foot office building on four
acres of land.

The Company is constructing an office building complex with 225,000 square feet
on 33 acres of land near Redding, England.  This is a phased construction
project, occupancy is expected to begin in the fall of 1997 and be completed in
winter of 1997.

In addition, the Company leases office space in numerous locations in the United
States and many other countries.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The information set forth in Notes to Financial Statements-Commitments and
Contingencies on page 40 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1997.

<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information set forth on page 42 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.1.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The information set forth on page 1 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.2.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition

The information set forth on pages 26-31 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.3.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The following financial statements for the Company and independent auditors'
report set forth on pages 24-25, 32-41, 43 and 44 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.4.

 .   Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1997
 .   Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1997
 .   Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1996 and 1997
 .   Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1997
 .   Notes to Financial Statements
 .   Independent Auditors' Report


Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosures

None.
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART III
                                        

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information with respect to Directors may be found under the caption "Election
of Directors and Management Information" on pages 1 and 2 of the Company's Proxy
Statement dated September 26, 1997, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held November 14, 1997 (the "Proxy Statement").  Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

The executive officers of Microsoft as of September 12, 1997 were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
  Name                          Age     Position with the Company
  <S>                           <C>     <C>
 
  William H. Gates              41      Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer 
  Steven A. Ballmer             41      Executive Vice President, Sales and Support
  Robert J. Herbold             55      Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer
  Frank M. (Pete) Higgins       39      Group Vice President, Interactive Media
  Paul A. Maritz                42      Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications
  Nathan P. Myhrvold            38      Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officier
  Jeffrey S. Raikes             39      Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing
  James E. Allchin              45      Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems Division
  Joachim Kempin                55      Senior Vice President, OEM Sales
  Michel Lacombe                46      Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe
  Craig J. Mundie               48      Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division
  William H. Neukom             55      Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary
  Brad A. Silverberg            43      Senior Vice President, Applications and Internet Client
  Gregory B. Maffei             37      Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer
</TABLE>

Mr. Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 and has been its Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was incorporated in
1981.

Mr. Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support in February
1992. He had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since 1989. From 1984
until 1989, Mr. Ballmer served as Vice President, Systems Software. He joined
Microsoft in 1980.

Mr. Herbold joined Microsoft as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer in November 1994. Mr. Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company
since 1968, with experience in information services, advertising and market
research. Most recently, he was P&G's Senior Vice President, Information
Services and Advertising.

Mr. Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group in October
1996.  He was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content in May 1995
and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division in March 1993. He had
been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since 1992. Mr. Higgins
joined Microsoft in 1983.

Mr. Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications in October
1996 and had been Group Vice President, Platforms since May 1995.  He had been
Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy in November 1994 and had
been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February 1992.  He had been
Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since 1989. Mr. Maritz joined
Microsoft in 1986.

Mr. Myhrvold was named Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in
October 1996. He was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content in May
1995 and had been Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology since July 1993. He
had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since
1989. Mr. Myhrvold joined Microsoft in 1986.
<PAGE>
 
Mr. Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing in July 1996.  He
was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America in January 1992 and had
been Vice President, Office Systems since 1990.  Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in
1981.

Mr. Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems Group
in February 1996.  He was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division
in November 1994 and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since
July 1991.  Mr. Allchin joined Microsoft in 1991.

Mr. Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales in August 1993.  He had
been Vice President, OEM Sales since 1987. Mr. Kempin joined Microsoft in 1983.

Mr. Lacombe was named President, Microsoft Europe in July 1997 and Senior Vice 
President, Microsoft in December 1996. He had been Vice President, Europe since 
September 1995 and Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April 
1994. Mr. Lacombe had been Regional Director of Southern Europe from May 1991. 
Mr. Lacombe joined Microsoft in 1983.

Mr. Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms in February 1996.
He was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division in May 1995 and
had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July 1993.  He
joined Microsoft as General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group in
December 1992.

Mr. Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs in
February 1994.  He joined Microsoft in 1985 as Vice President, Law and Corporate
Affairs.

Mr. Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Internet Client
Group in December 1996.  He had been Senior Vice President, Internet Platform
and Tools Division since February 1996. He was named Senior Vice President,
Personal Systems Division in November 1994 after joining Microsoft in August
1990 as Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division.

Mr. Maffei was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in July
1997.  He was named Vice President, Corporate Development in July 1996 and
Treasurer in April 1994. He joined Microsoft in April 1993 as Director, Business
Development & Investments. Previously, Mr. Maffei was Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Pay 'N Pac Stores, Inc. from 1991 to 1992.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information
Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" on pages 4 through 7 and "Information
Regarding the Board and its Committees" on page 2 is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial
Ownership of Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" on page 3 of the
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information set forth in Notes to Financial Statements--Acquisitions on page
40 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference
and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART IV
                                        

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  Financial Statements and Schedules

     The financial statements as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form
     10-K are incorporated herein by reference.

     Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not
     required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of fiscal 1997.

(c)  Exhibit Listing

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

       Exhibit
       Number  Description
       ------  -----------
       <C>     <S>  
        3.1    Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)

        3.2    Bylaws (1)

       10.1    Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan

       10.2    Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (2)

       10.3    Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee 
               Directors (1)

       10.4    Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and 
               Advisors (1)

       10.5    Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan

       10.6    Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (1)

       10.7    Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft 
               Corporation and First Interstate Bank of Washington (3)

       10.8    Form of Indemnification Agreement (3)

       11.     Computation of Earnings Per Share

       13.1    Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to
               Page 42 of 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders ("1997 Annual
               Report")

       13.2    Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to Page 1 of
               1997 Annual Report

       13.3    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
               Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 26-31 of
               1997 Annual Report

       13.4    Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 24-25, 
               32-41, 43, and 44 of 1997 Annual Report

       21.     Subsidiaries of Registrant (4)

       23.     Independent Auditors' Consent

       27.     Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE> 
________________

(1)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
     Ended June 30, 1994.
(2)  Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8.
(3)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
     Ended June 30, 1993.
(4)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.
<PAGE>
 
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Redmond,
State of Washington, on September 26, 1997.


                           MICROSOFT CORPORATION


                           By /s/ Gregory B. Maffei
                              ---------------------------
                                  Gregory B. Maffei
                           Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant and in
the capacities indicated on September 26, 1997.


 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

            Signature                                    Title
<S>                                        <C> 
       /s/ William H. Gates                   
- --------------------------------------
         William H. Gates                    Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                               and Chief Executive Officer

       /s/ Paul G. Allen
- --------------------------------------
         Paul G. Allen                                  Director


       
- --------------------------------------
         Jill E. Barad                                  Director


       /s/ Richard A. Hackborn
- --------------------------------------
         Richard A. Hackborn                            Director


       /s/ David F. Marquardt
- --------------------------------------
         David F. Marquardt                             Director


       /s/ Robert D. O'Brien
- --------------------------------------
         Robert D. O'Brien                              Director


       /s/ Wm. G. Reed, Jr.
- --------------------------------------
         Wm. G. Reed, Jr.                               Director


       /s/ Jon A. Shirley
- --------------------------------------
         Jon A. Shirley                                 Director


       /s/ Gregory B. Maffei
- --------------------------------------
         Gregory B. Maffei                 Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer 
                                            (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
                                          
                                          

</TABLE> 
<PAGE>
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

       Exhibit
       Number  Description
       ------  -----------
       <C>     <S>  
        3.1    Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)

        3.2    Bylaws (1)

       10.1    Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan

       10.2    Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (2)

       10.3    Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee 
               Directors (1)

       10.4    Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and 
               Advisors (1)

       10.5    Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan

       10.6    Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (1)

       10.7    Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft 
               Corporation and First Interstate Bank of Washington (3)

       10.8    Form of Indemnification Agreement (3)

       11.     Computation of Earnings Per Share

       13.1    Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to
               Page 42 of 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders ("1997 Annual
               Report")

       13.2    Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to Page 1 of
               1997 Annual Report

       13.3    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
               Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 26-31 of
               1997 Annual Report

       13.4    Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 24-25, 
               32-41, 43, and 44 of 1997 Annual Report

       21.     Subsidiaries of Registrant (4)

       23.     Independent Auditors' Consent

       27.     Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE> 
________________

(1)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
     Ended June 30, 1994.
(2)  Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8.
(3)  Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal Year
     Ended June 30, 1993.
(4)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>MICROSOFT CORPORATION 1991 STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   Exhibit 10.1.



           Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan, As Amended
<PAGE>
 
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                       1991 STOCK OPTION PLAN, AS AMENDED



     1.   Purpose of the Plan.  The purposes of this Stock Option Plan are to
          -------------------                                                
attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial
responsibility, to provide additional incentive to such individuals, and to
promote the success of the Company's business by aligning employee financial
interests with long-term shareholder value.

          Options granted hereunder may be either Incentive Stock Options or
Nonqualified Stock Options, at the discretion of the Board and as reflected in
the terms of the written option agreement.

     2.   Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
          -----------                                                         

          (a)  "Board" shall mean the Committee, if such Committee has been
                -----                                                      
appointed, or the Board of Directors of the Company, if such Committee has not
been appointed.

          (b)  "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
                ----                                                           

          (c)  "Committee" shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of
                ---------                                                    
Directors in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan, if one is
appointed; provided, however, if the Board of Directors appoints more than one
Committee pursuant to Section 4, then "Committee" shall refer to the appropriate
Committee, as indicated by the context of the reference.

          (d)  "Common Shares" shall mean the common shares of Microsoft
                -------------                                           
Corporation.

          (e)  "Company" shall mean Microsoft Corporation, a Washington
                -------                                                
corporation and any successor thereto.


          (f)  "Continuous Status as an Employee" shall mean the absence of any
                --------------------------------                               
interruption or termination of service as an Employee.  Continuous Status as an
Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of sick leave,
maternity leave, infant care leave, medical emergency leave, military leave, or
any other leave of absence authorized in writing by a Vice President of the
Company prior to its commencement.
<PAGE>
 
          (g)  "Employee" shall mean any person, including officers, employed by
                --------                                                        
the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.

          (h)  "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean any Option intended to
                ----------------------                                   
qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the
Code.

          (i)  "Maximum Annual Employee Grant" shall have the meaning set forth
               -------------------------------                                 
in Section 5(e).

          (j)  "Non-Employee Director" shall have the same meaning as defined or
                ---------------------
interpreted for purposes of Rule 16b-3 (including amendments and successor
provisions) as promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
its authority under the Exchange Act ("Rule 16b-3").

          (k)  "Nonqualified Stock Option" shall mean an Option not intended to
                -------------------------                                      
qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.

          (l)  "Option" shall mean a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
                ------                                                         

          (m)  "Optioned Shares" shall mean the Common Shares subject to an
                ---------------                                            
Option.

          (n)  "Optionee" shall mean an Employee who receives an Option.
                --------                                                

          (o)  "Outside Director" shall have the same meaning as defined or
               ------------------                                          
interpreted for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.

          (p)  "Parent" shall mean a "parent corporation," whether now or
                ------                                                   
hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.

          (q)  "Plan" shall mean this 1991 Stock Option Plan, including any
                ----                                                       
amendments thereto.

          (r)  "Share" shall mean one Common Share, as adjusted in accordance
                -----                                                        
with Section 11 of the Plan.
<PAGE>
 
          (s) "Subsidiary" shall mean (i) in the case of an Incentive Stock
               ----------                                                  
Option a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined
in Section 424(f) of the Code, and (ii) in the case of a Nonqualified Stock
Option, in addition to a subsidiary corporation as defined in (i), a limited
liability company, partnership or other entity in which the Company controls 50
percent or more of the voting power or equity interests.

     3.   Shares Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of Section 11
          --------------------------                                          
of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of shares which may be optioned and
sold under the Plan is 520,000,000 Common Shares.  The Shares may be authorized,
but unissued, or reacquired Common Shares.

          If an Option should expire or become unexercisable for any reason
without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject
thereto shall, unless the Plan shall have been terminated, become available for
future grant under the Plan.


     4.   Administration of the Plan.
          -------------------------- 

          (a) Procedure.  The Plan shall be administered by the Board of
              ---------                                                 
Directors of the Company.

              (1) The Board of Directors may appoint one or more Committees each
consisting of not less than two members of the Board of Directors to administer
the Plan on behalf of the Board of Directors, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Once appointed, such
Committees shall continue to serve until otherwise directed by the Board of
Directors.

              (2) Any grants of Options to officers who are subject to Section
16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") shall be made by
(i) a Committee of two or more directors, each of whom is a Non-Employee
Director and an Outside Director or (ii) as otherwise permitted by both Rule 
16b-3, Section 162(m) of the Code and other applicable regulations.

              (3) Subject to the foregoing subparagraphs (1) and (2), from time
to time the Board of Directors may increase the size of the Committee(s) and
appoint additional members thereof, remove members (with or without cause) and
appoint new members in substitution therefor, or fill vacancies however caused.


          (b) Powers of the Board.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
              -------------------                                             
Board shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to grant Incentive Stock
Options or Nonqualified Stock Options; (ii) to determine, in accordance with
Section 8(b) of the Plan, the fair market value of the Shares; (iii) to
determine, in accordance with Section 8(a) of the Plan, the exercise price per
<PAGE>
 
share of Options to be granted; (iv) to determine the Employees to whom, and the
time or times at which, Options shall be granted and the number of Shares to be
represented by each Option; (v) to interpret the Plan; (vi) to prescribe, amend,
and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (vii) to determine the
terms and provisions of each Option granted (which need not be identical) and,
with the consent of the holder thereof, modify or amend each Option; (viii) to
reduce the exercise price per share of outstanding and unexercised Options; (ix)
to accelerate or defer (with the consent of the Optionee) the exercise date of
any Option; (x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any
instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option previously granted by
the Board; and (xi) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Plan.

          (c) Effect of Board's Decision.  All decisions, determinations, and
              --------------------------                                     
interpretations of the Board shall be final and binding on all Optionees and any
other holders of any Options granted under the Plan.

     5.   Eligibility.
          ----------- 

          (a)  Options may be granted only to Employees. For avoidance of doubt,
directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan unless they are full-time
Employees.

          (b)  Each Option shall be designated in the written option agreement
as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.  However,
notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate fair market
value of the Shares with respect to which Options designated as Incentive Stock
Options are exercisable for the first time by any Optionee during any calendar
year (under all plans of the Company) exceeds $100,000, such Options shall be
treated as Nonqualified Stock Options.

          (c)  For purposes of Section 5(b), Options shall be taken into account
in the order in which they were granted, and the fair market value of the Shares
shall be determined as of the time the Option with respect to such Shares is
granted.

          (d)  Nothing in the Plan or any Option granted hereunder shall confer
upon any Optionee any right with respect to continuation of employment with the
Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with the Optionee's right or the
Company's right to terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or
without cause.

          (e)  The maximum number of Shares with respect to which an Option or
Options may be granted to any Employee in any one taxable year of the Company
shall not exceed 2,000,000 shares (the "Maximum Annual Employee Grant").
<PAGE>
 
     6.   Term of Plan.  The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by
          ------------                                                       
the Board.  It shall continue in effect until August 16, 2001, unless sooner
terminated under Section 14 of the Plan.

     7.   Term of Option.  The term of each Option shall be no more than ten
          --------------                                                    
(10) years from the date of grant.  However, in the case of an Incentive Stock
Option granted to an Optionee who, at the time the Option is granted, owns
Shares representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all
classes of shares of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the
Option shall be no more than five (5) years from the date of grant.


     8.   Exercise Price and Consideration.
          -------------------------------- 

          (a)  The per Share exercise price under each Option shall be such
price as is determined by the Board, subject to the following:


               (1)  In the case of an Incentive Stock Option

                    (i)   granted to an Employee who, at the time of the grant
of such Incentive Stock Option, owns shares representing more than ten percent
(10%) of the voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or any Parent
or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the
fair market value per Share on the date of grant.

                    (ii)  granted to any other Employee, the per Share exercise
price shall be no less than 100% of the fair market value per Share on the date
of grant.

               (2)  In the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option the per Share
exercise price may be less than, equal to, or greater than the fair market value
per Share on the date of grant.

          (b)  The fair market value per Share shall be the closing price per
share of the Common Share on the Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") on the date of
grant.  If the Shares cease to be listed on Nasdaq, the Board shall designate an
alternative method of determining the fair market value of the Shares.

          (c)  The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon
exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall be determined by
the Board at the time of grant and may consist of cash and/or check.  Payment
may also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice together with
irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the
amount of sale proceeds necessary to pay the exercise price.  If the Optionee is
<PAGE>
 
an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act,
he may in addition be allowed to pay all or part of the purchase price with
Shares.  Shares used by officers to pay the exercise price shall be valued at
their fair market value on the exercise date.

          (d)  Prior to issuance of the Shares upon exercise of an Option, the
Optionee shall pay any federal, state, and local withholding obligations of the
Company, if applicable.  If an Optionee is an officer of the Company within the
meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, he may elect to pay such withholding
tax obligations by having the Company withhold Shares having a value equal to
the amount required to be withheld.  The value of the Shares to be withheld
shall equal the fair market value of the Shares on the day the Option is
exercised. The right of an officer to dispose of Shares to the Company in
satisfaction of withholding tax obligations shall be deemed to be approved as
part of the initial grant of an option, unless thereafter rescinded, and shall
otherwise be made in compliance with Rule 16b-3 and other applicable
regulations.

     9.   Exercise of Option.
          ------------------ 

          (a)  Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder. Any Option
               -----------------------------------------------            
granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions
as determined by the Board at the time of grant, and as shall be permissible
under the terms of the Plan.

          An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

          An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such
exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the
Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option and full payment for the
Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the
Company.  Full payment may, as authorized by the Board, consist of any
consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 8(c) of the Plan.
Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the
Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the share
certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any
other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock,
notwithstanding the exercise of the Option.  The Company shall issue (or cause
to be issued) such share certificate promptly upon exercise of the Option.  In
the event that the exercise of an Option is treated in part as the exercise of
an Incentive Stock Option and in part as the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock
Option pursuant to Section 5(b), the Company shall issue a share certificate
evidencing the Shares treated as acquired upon the exercise of an Incentive
Stock Option and a separate share certificate evidencing the Shares treated as
acquired upon the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option, and shall identify
each such certificate accordingly in its share transfer records.  No adjustment
will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to
the date the share certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of
the Plan.
<PAGE>
 
          Exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the
number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the
Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the
Option is exercised.

          (b)  Termination of Status as Employee.  In the event of termination
               ---------------------------------                              
of an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, such Optionee may exercise
stock options to the extent exercisable on the date of termination.  Such
exercise must occur within three (3) months (or such shorter time as may be
specified in the grant), after the date of such termination (but in no event
later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the
Option Agreement).  To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise
the Option at the date of such termination, or does not exercise such Option
within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.

          (c)  Disability of Optionee.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
               ----------------------                                    
Section 9(b) above, in the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous
Status as an Employee as a result of total and permanent disability (i.e., the
inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to
result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months), the Optionee may exercise the Option, but only to
the extent of the right to exercise that would have accrued had the Optionee
remained in Continuous Status as an Employee for a period of twelve (12) months
after the date on which the Employee ceased working as a result of the total and
permanent disability.  Such exercise must occur within eighteen (18) months (or
such shorter time as is specified in the grant) from the date on which the
Employee ceased working as a result of the total and permanent disability (but
in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set
forth in the Option Agreement).  To the extent that the Optionee was not
entitled to exercise such Option within the time specified herein, the Option
shall terminate.

          (d)  Death of Optionee.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
               -----------------                                            
9(b) above, in the event of the death of an Optionee:

               (i)  who is at the time of death an Employee of the Company, the
Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6) months following the date of
death (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such
Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Optionee's estate or by a
person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance,
but only to the extent of the right to exercise that would have accrued had the
Optionee continued living and remained in Continuous Status as an Employee
twelve (12) months after the date of death; or


               (ii)  whose Option has not yet expired but whose Continuous
Status as an Employee terminated prior to the date of death, the Option may be
exercised, at any time within six (6) months following the date of death (but in
no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set
forth in the Option Agreement), by the Optionee's estate or by a 
<PAGE>
 
person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance,
but only to the extent of the right to exercise that had accrued at the date of
termination.

          (e)  Notwithstanding subsections (b), (c), and (d) above, the Board
shall have the authority to extend the expiration date of any outstanding option
in circumstances in which it deems such action to be appropriate (provided that
no such extension shall extend the term of an option beyond the date on which
the option would have expired if no termination of the Employee's Continuous
Status as an Employee had occurred).

     10.  Non-Transferability of Options.  The Option may not be sold, pledged,
          ------------------------------                                       
assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by
will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the
lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee; provided that the Board may
permit further transferability, on a general or specific basis, and may impose
conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability.

     11.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger. Subject to any
          ----------------------------------------------------                
required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered
by each outstanding Option, the Maximum Annual Employee Grant and the number of
Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no
Options have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon
cancellation or expiration of an Option, as well as the price per Share covered
by each such outstanding Option, shall be proportionately adjusted for any
increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock
split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination, or reclassification of
the Shares, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares
effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however,
that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed
to have been "effected without receipt of consideration."  Such adjustment shall
be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final,
binding, and conclusive.  Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by
the Company of shares of any class, or securities convertible into shares of any
class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with
respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Option.

          In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the
Company, the Option will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such
proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board.  The Board may, in the
exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall
terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each Optionee the right to
exercise an Option as to all or any part of the Optioned Shares, including
Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable.  In the event
of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or
the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each Option shall be
assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor
corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless such
successor corporation does not agree to assume the Option or to substitute an
equivalent option, in which case the Board shall, in lieu of such assumption or
substitution, provide for the Optionee to have the right to exercise the Option
as to all of the Optioned Shares, including Shares as to which the Option would
not otherwise be exercisable.  If the Board makes an Option 
<PAGE>
 
fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger
or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the Optionee that the Option shall be
fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such
notice, and the Option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.

     12.  Time of Granting Options.  The date of grant of an Option shall, for
          ------------------------                                            
all purposes, be the date on which the Company completes the corporate action
relating to the grant of an option and all conditions to the grant have been
satisfied, provided that conditions to the exercise of an option shall not defer
the date of grant.  Notice of a grant shall be given to each Employee to whom an
Option is so granted within a reasonable time after the determination has been
made.

     13.  Substitutions and Assumptions.  The Board shall have the right to
          -----------------------------                                    
substitute or assume Options in connection with mergers, reorganizations,
separations, or other transactions to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies,
provided such substitutions and assumptions are permitted by Section 424 of the
Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  The number of Shares reserved
pursuant to Section 3 may be increased by the corresponding number of Options
assumed and, in the case of a substitution, by the net increase in the number of
Shares subject to Options before and after the substitution.

     14.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
          ------------------------------------- 

          (a)  Amendment and Termination.  The Board may amend or terminate the
               -------------------------                                       
Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable
(including, but not limited to amendments which the Board deems appropriate to
enhance the Company's ability to claim deductions related to stock option
exercises); provided that any increase in the number of Shares subject to the
Plan, other than in connection with an adjustment under Section 11 of the Plan,
shall require approval of or ratification by the shareholders of the Company.

          (b)  Employees in Foreign Countries.  The Board shall have the
               ------------------------------                           
authority to adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of foreign
countries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries may operate to assure the
viability of the benefits from Options granted to Employees employed in such
countries and to meet the objectives of the Plan.

          (c)  Effect of Amendment or Termination.  Any such amendment or
               ----------------------------------                        
termination of the Plan shall not affect Options already granted and such
Options shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been
amended or terminated, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and
the Board, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the
Company.

     15.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not be issued
          ----------------------------------                             
pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the
issuance and delivery of such 
<PAGE>
 
Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law,
including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the
Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the
requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and
shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect
to such compliance.

     16.  Reservation of Shares.  The Company, during the term of this Plan,
          ---------------------                                             
will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

     17.  Shareholder Approval.  The Plan, as amended, is subject to approval by
          --------------------                                                  
the shareholders of the Company at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
on November 12, 1996.  If the Plan, as herein amended, is not so approved by the
shareholders, the Plan, as previously approved, shall continue in effect.


[The number of shares in Sections 3 and 5(e) have been increased to reflect the
2-for-1 stock splits in May 1994 and November 1996.]



 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>MICROSOFT CORP 1997 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   Exhibit 10.5.

                                                                                

            Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
<PAGE>
 
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                       1997 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     Microsoft Corporation (the "Company") does hereby establish its 1997
Employee Stock Purchase Plan as follows:

     1.   Purpose of the Plan.  The purpose of this Plan is to provide eligible
          -------------------                                                  
employees who wish to become shareholders in the Company a convenient method of
doing so.  It is believed that employee participation in the ownership of the
business will be to the mutual benefit of both the employees and the Company.

     2.   Definitions.
          ----------- 

         2.1  "Base pay" means regular straight time earnings, plus review
cycle bonuses and overtime payments, payments for incentive compensation, and
other special payments except to the extent that any such item is specifically
excluded by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board").

         2.2  "Account" shall mean the funds accumulated with respect to an
individual employee as a result of deductions from his paycheck for the purpose
of purchasing stock under this Plan. The funds allocated to an employee's
account shall remain the property of the respective employee at all times but
may be commingled with the general funds of the Company.

     3.   Employees Eligible to Participate.  Any employee of the Company or any
          ---------------------------------                                     
of its subsidiaries who is in the employ of the Company or subsidiary on an
offering commencement date is eligible to participate in that offering, except
(a) employees whose customary employment is less than 20 hours per week, and (b)
employees whose customary employment is for not more than five months in any
calendar year.

     4.   Offerings.  There will be twelve separate consecutive six-month
          ---------                                                      
offerings pursuant to the Plan.  The first offering shall commence on January 1,
1997. Thereafter, offerings shall commence on each subsequent July 1 and January
1, and the final offering under this Plan shall commence on July 1, 2002 and
terminate on December 31, 2002.  In order to become eligible to purchase shares,
an employee must sign an Enrollment Agreement, and any other necessary papers on
or before the commencement date (January 1 or July 1) of the particular offering
in which he wishes to participate.  Participation in one offering under the Plan
shall neither limit, nor require, participation in any other offering.

     5.   Price.  The purchase price per share shall be the lesser of (1) 85% of
          -----                                                                 
the fair market value of the stock on the offering date; or (2) 85% of the fair
market value of the stock on the last business day of the offering.  Fair market
value shall mean the closing bid price as reported on the National Association
of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or, if the stock is traded on a
stock exchange, the closing price for the stock on the principal such exchange.

     6.   Offering Date.  The "offering date" as used in this Plan shall be the
          -------------                                                        
commencement date of the offering, if such date is a regular business day, or
the first regular business day following such commencement date.  A different
date may be set by resolution of the Board.
<PAGE>
 
     7.   Number of Shares to be Offered.  The maximum number of shares that
          ------------------------------                                    
will be offered under the Plan is 20,000,000 shares. The shares to be sold to
participants under the Plan will be common stock of the Company.  If the total
number of shares for which options are to be granted on any date in accordance
with Section 10 exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan
(after deduction of all shares for which options have been exercised or are then
outstanding), the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares
remaining available in as nearly a uniform manner as shall be practicable and as
it shall determine to be equitable.  In such event, the payroll deductions to be
made pursuant to the authorizations therefor shall be reduced accordingly and
the Company shall give written notice of such reduction to each employee
affected thereby.

     8.  Participation.
         ------------- 

         8.1  An eligible employee may become a participant by completing an
Enrollment Agreement provided by the Company and filing it with Shareholder
Services prior to the Commencement of the offering to which it relates.

         8.2  Payroll deductions for a participant shall commence on the
offering date, and shall end on the termination date of such offering unless
earlier terminated by the employee as provided in Paragraph 14.

     9.  Payroll Deductions.
         ------------------ 

         9.1  At the time a participant files his authorization for a payroll
deduction, he shall elect to have deductions made from his pay on each payday
during the time he is a participant in an offering at the rate of 2%, 4%, 6%,
8%, or 10% of his base pay.

         9.2  All payroll deductions made for a participant shall be credited
to his account under the Plan.  A participant may not make any separate cash
payment into such account nor may payment for shares be made other than by
payroll deduction.

         9.3  A participant may discontinue his participation in the Plan as
provided in Section 14, but no other change can be made during an offering and,
specifically, a participant may not alter the rate of his payroll deductions for
that offering.

     10.  Granting of Option.  On the offering date, this Plan shall be deemed
          ------------------                                                  
to have granted to the participant an option for as many full shares as he will
be able to purchase with the payroll deductions credited to his account during
his participation in that offering.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
participant may purchase more than 2,000 shares of stock during any single
offering.

     11.  Exercise of Option.  Each employee who continues to be a participant
          ------------------                                                  
in an offering on the last business day of that offering shall be deemed to have
exercised his option on such date and shall be deemed to have purchased from the
Company such number of full shares of common stock reserved for the purpose of
the Plan as his accumulated payroll deductions on such date will pay for at the
option price.
<PAGE>
 
     12.  Employee's Rights as a Shareholder. No participating employee shall
          ----------------------------------                                 
have any right as a shareholder with respect to any shares until the shares have
been purchased in accordance with Section 11 above and the stock has been issued
by the Company.

     13.  Evidence of Stock Ownership.
          --------------------------- 

          13.1  Promptly following the end of each offering, the number of
shares of common stock purchased by each participant shall be deposited into an
account established in the participant's name at a stock brokerage or other
financial services firm designated by the Company (the "ESPP Broker").

          13.2  The participant may direct, by written notice to the Company at
the time of his enrollment in the Plan, that his ESPP Broker account be
established in the names of the participant and one other person designated by
the participant, as joint tenants with right of survivorship, tenants in common,
or community property, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable
law.

          13.3  A participant shall be free to undertake a disposition (as that
term is defined in Section 424(c) of the Code) of the shares in his account at
any time, whether by sale, exchange, gift, or other transfer of legal title, but
in the absence of such a disposition of the shares, the shares must remain in
the participant's account at the ESPP Broker until the holding period set forth
in Section 423(a) of the Code has been satisfied.  With respect to shares for
which the Section 423(a) holding period has been satisfied, the participant may
move those shares to another brokerage account of participant's choosing or
request that a stock certificate be issued and delivered to him.

          13.4  A participant who is not subject to payment of U.S. income taxes
may move his shares to another brokerage account of his choosing or request that
a stock certificate be issued and delivered to him at any time, without regard
to the satisfaction of the Section 423(a) holding period.

     14.  Withdrawal.
          ---------- 

          14.1  An employee may withdraw from an offering, in whole but not in
part, at any time prior to the last business day of such offering by delivering
a Withdrawal Notice to the Company, in which event the Company will refund the
entire balance of his deductions as soon as practicable thereafter.

          14.2  To re-enter the Plan, an employee who has previously withdrawn
must file a new Enrollment Agreement in accordance with Section 8.1.  The
employee's re-entry into the Plan will not become effective before the beginning
of the next offering following his withdrawal, and if the withdrawing employee
is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 he may not re-enter the Plan before the beginning of the
second offering following his withdrawal.

     15.  Carryover of Account.  At the termination of each offering the Company
          --------------------                                                  
shall automatically re-enroll the employee in the next offering, and the balance
in the employee's account shall be used for option exercises in the new
offering, unless the employee has advised the Company otherwise.  Upon
termination of the Plan, the balance of each employee's account shall be
refunded to him.

     16.  Interest.  No interest will be paid or allowed on any money in the
          --------                                                          
accounts of participating employees.
<PAGE>
 
     17.  Rights Not Transferable.  No employee shall be permitted to sell,
          -----------------------                                          
assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or encumber either the payroll
deductions credited to his account or any rights with regard to the exercise of
an option or to receive shares under the Plan other than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution, and such right and interest shall not be liable for,
or subject to, the debts, contracts, or liabilities of the employee.  If any
such action is taken by the employee, or any claim is asserted by any other
party in respect of such right and interest whether by garnishment, levy,
attachment or otherwise, such action or claim will be treated as an election to
withdraw funds in accordance with Section 14.

     18.  Termination of Employment.  Upon termination of employment for any
          -------------------------                                         
reason whatsoever, including but not limited to death or retirement, the balance
in the account of a participating employee shall be paid to the employee or his
estate.

     19.  Amendment or Discontinuance of the Plan.  The Board shall have the
          ---------------------------------------                           
right to amend, modify, or terminate the Plan at any time without notice,
provided that no employee's existing rights under any offering already made
under Section 4 hereof may be adversely affected thereby, and provided further
that no such amendment of the Plan shall, except as provided in Section 20,
increase above 20,000,000 shares the total number of shares to be offered unless
shareholder approval is obtained therefor.

     20.  Changes in Capitalization.  In the event of reorganization,
          -------------------------                                  
recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares, merger,
consolidation, offerings of rights, or any other change in the structure of the
common shares of the Company, the Board may make such adjustment, if any, as it
may deem appropriate in the number, kind, and the price of shares available for
purchase under the Plan, and in the number of shares which an employee is
entitled to purchase.

     21.  Share Ownership.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no
          ---------------                                                      
employee shall be permitted to subscribe for any shares under the Plan if such
employee, immediately after such subscription, owns shares (including all shares
which may be purchased under outstanding subscriptions under the Plan)
possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes
of shares of the Company or of its parent or subsidiary corporations.  For the
foregoing purposes the rules of Section 425(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 shall apply in determining share ownership.  In addition, no employee shall
be allowed to subscribe for any shares under the Plan which permits his rights
to purchase shares under all "employee stock purchase plans" of the Company and
its subsidiary corporations to accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000 of the
fair market value of such shares (determined at the time such right to subscribe
is granted) for each calendar year in which such right to subscribe is
outstanding at any time.

     22.  Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by the Board.  The
          --------------                                                    
Board may delegate any or all of its authority hereunder to such committee of
the Board or officer of the Company as it may designate.  The administrator
shall be vested with full authority to make, administer, and interpret such
rules and regulations as it deems necessary to administer the Plan, and any
determination, decision, or action of the administrator in connection with the
construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Plan shall
be final, conclusive, and binding upon all participants and any and all persons
claiming under or through any participant.

     23.  Notices.  All notices or other communications by a participant to the
          -------
Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly
given when received by Shareholder Services of the Company or when received in
the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated
by the Company for the receipt thereof.
<PAGE>
 
     24.  Termination of the Plan.  This Plan shall terminate at the earliest of
          -----------------------                                               
the following:

          24.1  December 31, 2002;

          24.2  The date of the filing of a Statement of Intent to Dissolve by
the Company or the effective date of a merger or consolidation wherein the
Company is not to be the surviving corporation, which merger or consolidation is
not between or among corporations related to the Company.  Prior to the
occurrence of either of such events, on such date as the Company may determine,
the Company may permit a participating employee to exercise the option to
purchase shares for as many full shares as the balance of his account will allow
at the price set forth in accordance with Section 5. If the employee elects to
purchase shares, the remaining balance of his account will be refunded to him
after such purchase.

          24.3  The date the Board acts to terminate the Plan in accordance with
Section 19 above.

          24.3  The date when all shares reserved under the Plan have been
purchased.

     25.  Limitations on Sale of Stock Purchased Under the Plan. The Plan is
          -----------------------------------------------------             
intended to provide common stock for investment and not for resale.  The Company
does not, however, intend to restrict or influence any employee in the conduct
of his own affairs.  An employee, therefore, may sell stock purchased under the
Plan at any time he chooses, subject to compliance with any applicable Federal
or state securities laws.  THE EMPLOYEE ASSUMES THE RISK OF ANY MARKET
FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF THE STOCK.

     26.  Governmental Regulation.  The Company's obligation to sell and deliver
          -----------------------                                               
shares of the Company's common stock under this Plan is subject to the approval
of any governmental authority required in connection with the authorization,
issuance, or sale of such shares.

[The number of shares in Sections 7, 10, and 19 have been increased to reflect
the 2-for-1 stock split in November 1996.]
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     Exhibit 11.


Computation of Earnings Per Share
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Year Ended June 30
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               1995         1996           1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>           <C>            <C>
Weighted average common shares outstanding    1,176         1,194          1,204
                                                    
Common equivalent shares from stock options      78            87            108
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average common and equivalent shares 
 outstanding /(1)/                            1,254         1,281          1,312
================================================================================
Net income                                   $1,453        $2,195         $3,454
================================================================================
Earnings per share /(1)/                     $ 1.16        $ 1.71         $ 2.63
================================================================================
</TABLE>

__________________
/(1)/  Fully diluted earnings per share have not been presented because the
       effects are not material.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>QUARTERLY & MARKET INFO FROM 1997 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    Exhibit 13.1

                                                                                
Quarterly Information
(In millions, except per share data) (Unaudited)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
                                                Quarter Ended
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Sept. 30   Dec. 31    Mar. 31   June 30   Year
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>  
1995
Revenue                          $1,247    $1,482    $ 1,587   $ 1,621   $5,937
Operating income                    437       520        549       532    2,038
Net income                          316       373        396       368    1,453
Earnings per share                 0.25      0.30       0.32      0.29     1.16
Common stock price per share:
  High                            29.63     32.56      37.06     46.19    46.19
  Low                             23.44     26.94      29.13     34.38    23.44
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
1996
Revenue                          $2,016    $2,195    $ 2,205   $ 2,255   $8,671
Operating income                    708       786        774       810    3,078
Net income                          499       575        562       559    2,195
Earnings per share                 0.39      0.45       0.44      0.43     1.71
Common stock price per share:
  High                            54.63     51.69      53.53     62.94    62.94
  Low                             42.50     40.19      39.94     49.81    39.94
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
1997
Revenue                          $2,295    $2,680    $ 3,208   $ 3,175  $11,358
Operating income                    902     1,081      1,568     1,579    5,130
Net income                          614       741      1,042     1,057    3,454
Earnings per share                 0.47      0.57       0.79      0.80     2.63
Common stock price per share:
  High                            69.31     86.13     103.50    134.94   134.94
  Low                             53.75     65.44      80.75     89.75    53.75
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Company's common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
MSFT.  On July 31, 1997, there were 53,390 holders of record of the Company's
common stock.  The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.2
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FROM 1997 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    Exhibit 13.2


Financial Highlights
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                  1993      1994      1995     1996     1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>  
Revenue                            $3,753    $4,649    $5,937   $ 8,671  $11,358
Net income                            953     1,146     1,453     2,195    3,454
Earnings per share /(1)/             0.79      0.94      1.16      1.71     2.63
Return on revenue                   25.4%     24.7%     24.5%     25.3%    30.4%
Cash and short-term investments    $2,290    $3,614    $4,750   $ 6,940  $ 8,966
Total assets                        3,805     5,363     7,210    10,093   14,387
Stockholders' equity                3,242     4,450     5,333     6,908   10,777
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
/(1)/ Earnings per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split
      in December 1996
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.3
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>MD&A FROM 1997 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    Exhibit 13.3

Management's Discussion and Analysis

Results of Operations for 1995, 1996, and 1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports a wide range of
software products, including scalable operating systems for information
appliances, personal computers (PCs), and servers; server applications for
client/server environments; business and consumer productivity applications;
software development tools; and Internet and intranet software and technologies.
The Company has recently expanded its interactive content efforts, including
entertainment and information software programs, MSN, The Microsoft Network
online service, Internet-based services, and alliances with companies involved
with other forms of digital interactivity.  Microsoft also sells personal
computer input devices and books, and researches and develops advanced
technologies for future software products.


Revenue
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                
The Company's revenue grew 46% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996 and 31% in
fiscal 1997.  Revenue growth was particularly strong in 1996 due to the retail
introduction of the Microsoft Windows 95 operating system. Software license
volume increases have been the principal factor in Microsoft's revenue growth.
The average selling price per license has decreased, primarily because of
general shifts in the sales mix from retail packaged products to licensing
programs, from new products to product upgrades, and from stand-alone desktop
applications to integrated product suites.  Average revenue per license from
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) licenses and corporate and organization
license programs, such as Microsoft Select, is lower than average revenue per
license from retail versions.  Likewise, product upgrades have lower prices than
new products.  Also, prices of integrated suites, such as Microsoft Office, are
less than the sum of the prices for the individual programs included in these
suites when such programs are licensed separately.  During 1996 and 1997, an
increased percentage of products and programs became subject to ratable revenue
recognition, such as Windows operating systems, Office 97, maintenance, and
other subscription models. (See accompanying notes.)

Product groups.  Microsoft has a Platforms Product Group and an Applications &
Content Product Group.

Platforms Product Group revenue was $2.36 billion, $4.11 billion, and $5.97
billion in 1995, 1996, and 1997.  Platform revenue is primarily from licenses of
PC operating systems, business systems with client/server architectures, and
software development tools.

The Company's principal desktop platform products in 1996 and 1997 were its 32-
bit operating systems, Microsoft Windows 95 and Microsoft Windows NT
Workstation. Released in August 1995, Windows 95 was a successor to MS-DOS and
Microsoft Windows 3.x operating systems. Windows NT Workstation version 4.0 was
released in fiscal 1997. Desktop operating systems increasingly contributed to
revenue as shipments of new PCs preinstalled with such systems increased rapidly
during the three-year period. Additionally, increased penetration of higher
value 32-bit operating systems led to growth in 1996 and 1997. In 1996, retail
license sales of Windows 95 were a major factor in the Platforms revenue
increase, reflecting the typical sales pattern for major operating system
upgrades. Also in 1996, a portion of Windows operating system revenue became
subject to ratable recognition.

Business systems products offer an enterprise-wide distributed client/server
environment based on the Microsoft Windows NT Server operating system and the
server applications in the Microsoft BackOffice family of products.  Revenue
from these products increased strongly in 1995, 1996, and 1997 due to greater
corporate demand, particularly for intranet solutions.

Revenue from developer products increased steadily in all three years, as more
independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions developers
licensed tools such as the Microsoft Visual Basic programming system to
develop software for Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems and the
Internet.

Applications & Content Product Group revenue was $3.58 billion, $4.56 billion,
and $5.39 billion in 1995, 1996, and 1997.  Applications and Content revenue
includes primarily licenses of desktop and consumer productivity applications,
<PAGE>
 
interactive media programs, and PC input devices.  Microsoft Office for Windows
95 was released in fiscal 1996 and Microsoft Office 97 was released in fiscal
1997.  Applications and Content revenue grew 27% in 1996 and 18% in 1997.  The
lower growth rate in 1997 was due to the expected impact of saturation of
desktop applications, the continued shift in mix toward corporate licenses from
packaged products, and the ratable revenue recognition model for Office 97.

Absolute increases in desktop applications revenue during the three-year period
were led by Microsoft Office.  The primary programs in Microsoft Office are
Microsoft Word word processor, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, and Microsoft
PowerPoint presentation graphics program.  Various versions of Office, which
are available for the 32-bit version of Windows, the 16-bit version of Windows,
and Macintosh operating systems, also include Microsoft Access database
management program, Microsoft Outlook desktop information manager, or other
programs.  Revenue from stand-alone versions of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word,
and Microsoft PowerPoint continued to decrease as the sales mix shifted to
integrated product suites. Microsoft Project scheduling and project management
program revenue increased during the three-year period.

Microsoft offers a broad range of interactive media products, which also showed
moderate growth.  Products include CD-ROM multimedia reference titles and
programs for home and small office productivity, children's creativity, and
entertainment.  In addition to The Microsoft Network, recently introduced online
Internet services include travel information and reservations, local event
information, and new-car buying.

The Company also markets input devices.  Mouse and gaming device sales increased
while keyboard revenue was steady during the three-year period.

Sales channels.  The Company distributes its products primarily through OEM
licenses, corporate and organizational licenses, and retail packaged products.
OEM channel revenue represents license fees from original equipment
manufacturers.  Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing
organizations: the United States and Canada, Europe, and elsewhere in the world
(Other International).  Sales of corporate and organization licenses and
packaged products in these channels are primarily to distributors and resellers.

OEM channel revenue was $1.65 billion in 1995, $2.50 billion in 1996, and $3.48
billion in 1997.  The primary source of OEM revenue is the licensing of desktop
operating systems, and OEM revenue is highly dependent on PC shipment volume.

Licensing programs continued to grow in popularity across all geographic areas
during the three-year period.  Packaged product volume increased in 1996 due to
the release of retail upgrade versions of Windows 95.  U.S. and Canadian channel
revenue was $1.88 billion, $2.68 billion, and $3.41 billion in 1995, 1996, and
1997.  Revenue in Europe was $1.49 billion, $2.02 billion, and $2.54 billion in
1995, 1996, and 1997.  Growth rates have been lower in Europe than in other
geographic areas due to general economic slowness, higher existing market
shares, and a more dramatic shift to licensing programs.  Other International
channel revenue was $924 million in 1995, $1.47 billion in 1996, and $1.93
billion in 1997.  Growth rates were higher in the Other International channel
due to customers accepting newly localized products, particularly in Japan, and
penetration in emerging markets.

The Company's operating results are affected by foreign exchange rates.
Approximately 37%, 34%, and 32% of the Company's revenue was collected in
foreign currencies during 1995, 1996, and 1997.  Since a portion of local
currency revenue is hedged and much of the Company's international manufacturing
costs and operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the impact
of exchange rates is partially mitigated.


Operating Expenses
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                

Cost of revenue.  As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue was 14.8% in 1995,
13.7% in 1996, and 9.6% in 1997.  The decrease was due to the shifts in mix to
CD-ROMs (which carry lower cost of goods than disks), licenses to OEMs and
corporations, and higher-margin Windows NT Server and other BackOffice server
products.

Research and development.  Microsoft invested heavily in the future by funding
research and development (R&D).  Expense increases of 67% in 1996 and 34% in
1997 resulted primarily from development staff headcount growth and higher
levels of third-party development costs in many areas, including continued
development efforts for Windows 
<PAGE>
 
desktop operating systems, Office, BackOffice, and Internet and intranet
technologies. R&D costs also increased for development tools, consumer systems,
and interactive media initiatives such as MSN and other online services.

Sales and marketing.  The increase in the absolute dollar amount of sales and
marketing expenses in the three-year period was due primarily to expanded
product-specific marketing programs, particularly for Windows 95 during 1996.
Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue decreased, particularly in
1997, reflecting moderate headcount growth.  Also in 1997, Microsoft brand
advertising and product support expenses declined.

General and administrative.  Increases in general and administrative expenses
were primarily attributable to growth in the number of people and computer
systems necessary to support overall increases in the scope of the Company's
operations.


Nonoperating Items and Income Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interest income increased primarily as a result of a larger investment portfolio
generated by cash from operations.  Other expenses increased due to recognition
of Microsoft's share of joint venture activities, including DreamWorks
Interactive and the MSNBC entities.  During 1995, Microsoft paid a $46 million
breakup fee to Intuit Inc. in connection with the termination of a planned
merger.  The effective income tax rate was 33% in 1995 and 35% in 1996 and 1997.


Net Income
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income as a percent of revenue increased in 1996 and 1997 due to the lower
relative cost of revenue, sales and marketing expenses, and general and
administrative expenses, partially offset by investments in research and
development and joint ventures.


Financial Condition
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft's cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $8.97 billion at
June 30, 1997.  The portfolio is diversified among security types, industries,
and individual issuers.  Microsoft's investments are generally liquid and
investment grade.  The portfolio is invested predominantly in U.S. dollar
denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions in
anticipation of continued international expansion.  The portfolio is primarily
invested in short-term securities to minimize interest rate risk and facilitate
rapid deployment in the event of immediate cash needs.

During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel and an interactive
online news service.  Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a five-year
period for its interest in the cable venture and to pay one-half of operational
funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period.

During 1997, Microsoft invested $1.0 billion in Comcast Corporation, a cable
television and diversified telecommunications company.  Comcast Special Class A
common stock of $500 million and convertible preferred stock of $500 million are
included in equity investments on the balance sheet.

Microsoft has no material long-term debt and has $70 million of standby
multicurrency lines of credit to support foreign currency hedging and cash
management.  Stockholders' equity at June 30, 1997 was $10.78 billion.

Microsoft will continue to invest in sales, marketing, and product support
infrastructure.  Additionally, research and development activities will include
investments in existing and advanced areas of technology, including using cash
to acquire technology and to fund ventures and other strategic opportunities.
Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and
computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and
administrative staff.  Commitments for constructing new buildings were $300
million on June 30, 1997.

Cash will also be used to repurchase common stock to provide shares for employee
stock option and purchase plans.  Despite recent increases in stock repurchases,
the buyback program has not kept pace with employee stock option grants or
exercises.  Beginning in fiscal 1990, Microsoft has repurchased 154 million
common shares for $6.2 billion while 363 million shares were issued under the
Company's employee stock option and purchase plans.  The market value of all
outstanding stock options was $30.2 billion as of June 30, 1997.  Microsoft
enhances its repurchase program by selling put warrants.  During December 1996,
Microsoft issued 12.5 million shares of 2.75% convertible preferred stock.  Net
proceeds of $980 million were used to repurchase common shares.
<PAGE>
 
Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds
generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating requirements for
the next 12 months.  Microsoft's cash and short-term investments are available
for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, other potential large-scale
cash needs that may arise, and to fund an increased stock buyback program over
historical levels to reduce the dilutive impact of the Company's employee stock
option and purchase programs.

Microsoft has not paid cash dividends on its common stock.  The preferred stock
pays $2.196 per annum per share.


Outlook: Issues and Uncertainties
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft does not provide forecasts of future financial performance.  While
Microsoft management is optimistic about the Company's long-term prospects, the
following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in
evaluating its growth outlook.

Rapid technological change and competition.  Rapid change, uncertainty due to
new and emerging technologies, and fierce competition characterize the PC
software industry.  The pace of change has recently accelerated due to the
Internet and new programming languages, such as Java.

Future initiatives.  The Company is expanding its efforts to provide and support
mission-critical systems to large enterprises.  Scalability of BackOffice server
and application products, manageability of Windows- and Office-based systems,
and Internet and intranet integration are also major focus areas.  Additionally,
Microsoft is committed to providing technologies, operating systems, and
interactive content for the future convergence of PCs, televisions, and the
Internet.  Future revenue from these initiatives may not duplicate historical
revenue growth rates.

PC growth rates.  The underlying PC unit growth rate, which may decrease in the
future, directly impacts software revenue growth.

Product ship schedules.  Shipments of new versions of major products such as
Windows 95 have generally had positive impacts on revenue growth rates.  The
Company does not currently expect that individual products to be released in
1998 will repeat the financial performance of Windows 95.  Also, delays in new-
product releases can cause operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing
and distribution logistics, independent software vendor (ISV) and OEM
relationships, and telephone support staffing.

Customer acceptance.  While the Company performs extensive usability and beta
testing of new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates
ultimately dictate the success of development and marketing efforts.

Prices.  Future product prices may decrease from historical levels, depending on
competitive market and cost factors.  European and Far Eastern software prices
vary by country and are generally higher than in the United States to cover
localization costs and higher costs of distribution.  Increased global license
agreements, European monetary unification, or other factors could erode such
price uplifts in the future.

Earnings process.  An increasingly higher percentage of the Company's revenue is
subject to ratable recognition.  Subsequent product support and delivery of
unspecified enhancements require the applicable portion of revenue for certain
products to be recognized over the product's life cycle.  This policy may be
required for future products, depending on specific license terms and
conditions.  Also, maintenance and other subscription programs may continue to
increase in popularity, particularly with corporations and other large
organizations.

Saturation.  Product upgrades, which enable users to upgrade from earlier
versions of the Company's products or from competitors' products, have lower
prices and margins than new products.  As the desktop applications market has
become saturated, the sales mix has shifted from standard products to upgrade
products.  This trend is likely to continue.

Corporate licenses.  Average revenue per unit from corporate and organization
license programs is lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions
shipped through the finished goods channels.  Unit sales under licensing
programs may continue to increase.
<PAGE>
 
Channel mix.  Average revenue per license is lower from OEM licenses than from
retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs of operations in
the OEM channel.  An increasingly higher percentage of revenue was achieved
through the OEM channel during 1996 and 1997.

Integrated suites.  The price of integrated suites, such as Microsoft Office, is
less than the sum of the prices for the individual programs included in these
suites when such programs are licensed separately.  Revenue from integrated
suites may continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue.

Cost of revenue.  Although cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased
in 1996 and 1997, it varies with channel mix and product mix within channels.
The trend of declining cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue is unlikely to
continue in 1998.

Pay and participation model.  Microsoft employees currently receive salaries,
incentive bonuses, other fringe benefits, and stock options.  New government
regulations, poor stock price performance, or other factors could diminish the
value of the option program and force the Company into more of a cash
compensation model.  Had the Company paid employees in cash the grant date
Black-Scholes value of options vested in 1995, 1996, and 1997, the pretax
expense would have been approximately $310 million, $450 million, and $620
million.

Long-term research and development investment cycle.  Developing and localizing
software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a
long payback cycle.  The Company plans to continue significant investments in
software research and development and related product opportunities from which
significant revenue is not anticipated for a number of years.  Management
expects total spending for research and development in 1998 to increase over
spending in 1997.

Sales and marketing and support investments. The Company's plans for 1998
include accelerated investments in its sales and marketing and support groups.

Foreign exchange.  A large percentage of the Company's sales, costs of
manufacturing, and marketing is transacted in local currencies.  As a result,
the Company's international results of operations are subject to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations.

Interest rate sensitivity.  The Company's cash and short-term investment
portfolio is subject to interest rate risk.  An abrupt increase in interest
rates would decrease the market value of the Company's fixed income securities.
For example, a 200 basis point increase in short-term treasury security yields
would reduce the carrying value of the portfolio at June 30, 1997 by $200
million.

Intellectual property rights.  Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual
property rights, but unlicensed copying of software represents a loss of revenue
to the Company.  While this adversely affects U.S. revenue, revenue loss is even
more significant outside of the United States, particularly in countries where
laws are less protective of intellectual property rights.  Throughout the world,
Microsoft actively educates consumers on the benefits of licensing genuine
products and educates lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected.  However, continued efforts may not
affect revenue positively.

Future growth rate.  The revenue growth rate in 1998 may not approach the level
attained in 1997, particularly when compared to the second half of 1997.  As
discussed above, operating expenses are expected to increase in 1998.  Because
of the fixed nature of a significant portion of such expenses, coupled with the
possibility of slower revenue growth, operating margins in 1998 may decrease
from those in 1997.

Litigation.  Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and
copyrights occurs in the PC software industry.  In addition, there are
government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate
legal risks.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.4
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FROM 1997 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    Exhibit 13.4



                             Microsoft Corporation


                              Financial Statements



         Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1997

         Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1997

         Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1996 and 1997

         Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1997

         Notes to Financial Statements

         Independent Auditors' Report
<PAGE>
 
Income Statements
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                    1995             1996             1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>              <C>             <C>
Revenue                                                              $5,937           $8,671          $11,358
Operating expenses:
     Cost of revenue                                                    877            1,188            1,085
     Research and development                                           860            1,432            1,925
     Sales and marketing                                              1,895            2,657            2,856
     General and administrative                                         267              316              362
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total operating expenses                                     3,899            5,593            6,228
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                                      2,038            3,078            5,130
Interest income                                                         191              320              443
Other expenses                                                          (62)             (19)            (259)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                                            2,167            3,379            5,314
Provision for income taxes                                              714            1,184            1,860
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                            1,453            2,195            3,454
Preferred stock dividends                                                --               --               15
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available for common shareholders                         $1,453           $2,195          $ 3,439
=============================================================================================================
Earnings per share(1)                                                $ 1.16           $ 1.71          $  2.63
=============================================================================================================
Weighted average shares outstanding(1)                                1,254            1,281            1,312
=============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.

(1) Share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect a two-for-one 
    stock split in December 1996.
<PAGE>
 
Cash Flows Statements
(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                   1995             1996             1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                <C>              <C>              <C>
Cash flows from operations
     Net income                                                    $ 1,453          $ 2,195          $ 3,454
     Depreciation and amortization                                     269              480              557
     Unearned revenue                                                   69              983            1,601
     Recognition of unearned revenue from prior periods                (54)            (477)            (743)
     Other current liabilities                                         404              584              321
     Accounts receivable                                               (91)             (71)            (336)
     Other current assets                                              (60)              25             (165)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash from operations                                    1,990            3,719            4,689
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows used for financing
     Common stock issued                                               332              504              744
     Common stock repurchased                                         (698)          (1,385)          (3,101)
     Put warrant proceeds                                               49              124               95
     Preferred stock issued                                             --               --              980
     Preferred stock dividends                                          --               --              (15)
     Stock option income tax benefits                                  179              352              796
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash used for financing                                  (138)            (405)            (501)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows used for investments
     Additions to property, plant, and equipment                      (495)            (494)            (499)
     Equity investments and other                                     (230)            (625)          (1,669)
     Short-term investments                                           (651)          (1,551)            (921)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Net cash used for investments                              (1,376)          (2,670)          (3,089)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net change in cash and equivalents                                     476              644            1,099
Effect of exchange rates on cash and equivalents                         9               (5)               6
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year                              1,477            1,962            2,601
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and equivalents, end of year                                    1,962            2,601            3,706
Short-term investments                                               2,788            4,339            5,260
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and short-term investments                                    $ 4,750          $ 6,940          $ 8,966
============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>
 
Balance Sheets
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                                                              1996           1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                <C>            <C>
Assets
Current assets:
  Cash and short-term investments                                                  $ 6,940        $ 8,966
  Accounts receivable                                                                  639            980
  Other                                                                                260            427
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current assets                                                             7,839         10,373
Property, plant, and equipment                                                       1,326          1,465
Equity investments                                                                     675          2,346
Other assets                                                                           253            203
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total assets                                                                 $10,093        $14,387
=========================================================================================================
 
Liabilities and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable                                                                 $   808        $   721
  Accrued compensation                                                                 202            336
  Income taxes payable                                                                 484            466
  Unearned revenue                                                                     560          1,418
  Other                                                                                371            669
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current liabilities                                                        2,425          3,610
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Minority interest                                                                      125             --
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Put warrants                                                                           635             --
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
  Convertible preferred stock--shares authorized 0 and 100;
    shares issued and outstanding 0 and 13                                              --            980
  Common stock and paid-in capital--shares authorized 4,000;
    shares issued and outstanding 1,194 and 1,204                                    2,924          4,509
  Retained earnings                                                                  3,984          5,288
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total stockholders' equity                                                       6,908         10,777
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                   $10,093        $14,387
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>
 
Stockholders' Equity Statements
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                     1995             1996            1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>             <C>             <C>
Convertible preferred stock
  Convertible preferred stock issued                                     --               --         $   980
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                                 --               --             980
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common stock and paid-in capital
  Balance, beginning of year                                         $1,500          $ 2,005           2,924
  Common stock issued                                                   332              504             744
  Common stock repurchased                                              (30)             (41)            (91)
  Proceeds from sale of put warrants                                     49              124              95
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                            (25)             (20)             45
  Stock option income tax benefits                                      179              352             792
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                              2,005            2,924           4,509
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Retained earnings
  Balance, beginning of year                                          2,950            3,328           3,984
  Net income                                                          1,453            2,195           3,454
  Preferred stock dividends                                              --               --             (15)
  Common stock repurchased                                             (668)          (1,344)         (3,010)
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                           (380)            (210)            590
  Net unrealized investment gains and other                             (27)              15             285
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                              3,328            3,984           5,288
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total stockholders' equity                                     $5,333          $ 6,908         $10,777
============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>
 
Notes to Financial Statements
(In millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Significant Accounting Policies

Accounting principles.  The financial statements are prepared on a basis
consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and International
Accounting Standards formulated by the International Accounting Standards
Committee (IASC).

Principles of consolidation.  The financial statements include the accounts of
Microsoft and its subsidiaries.  Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated.  Investments in 50% owned joint ventures are
accounted for using the equity method; the Company's share of joint ventures'
activities is reflected in other expenses.

Estimates and assumptions.  Preparing financial statements requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue, and expenses.  Examples include provisions for returns and
bad debts and the length of product life cycles and buildings' lives.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates.

Foreign currencies.  Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are
translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date.  Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to equity.
Revenue, costs, and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year.  Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions
are included in other expenses.

Revenue recognition.  Revenue is recognized when earned.  Revenue from products
licensed to original equipment manufacturers is recorded when OEMs ship licensed
products while revenue from corporate and organization license programs is
recorded when the user installs the product.  Revenue from packaged product
sales to distributors and resellers is recorded when related products are
shipped.  Maintenance and subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the
contract period.  Revenue attributable to significant support (technical support
and unspecified enhancements such as service packs and Internet browser updates)
is based on the price charged or derived value of the undelivered elements and
is recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the product's life cycle.
Costs related to insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for
certain products, are accrued.  Provisions are recorded for returns and bad
debts.

Research and development.  Research and development costs are expensed as
incurred.  The current U.S. accounting rule, Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) 86, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold,
Leased, or Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect the Company.

Telephone support.  Telephone support costs are included in sales and marketing.

Income taxes.  Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes,
plus an accrual for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international
subsidiaries.  Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax
returns and financial statements in the same year.  The tax effect of this
difference is reported as deferred income taxes.  Tax credits are accounted for
as a reduction of tax expense in the year in which the credits reduce taxes
payable.

Earnings per share.  Earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding plus the effect of outstanding stock
options using the "treasury stock" method and preferred shares using the "if-
converted" method.  Beginning in the second quarter of 1998, Microsoft will be
required to report earnings per outstanding common share in addition to diluted
earnings per share.  Earnings per common share computed under the new
pronouncement would have been $1.25, $1.85, and $2.87 while reported diluted
earnings per share were $1.16, $1.71, and $2.63 in 1995, 1996, and 1997.

Stock split.  In December 1996, outstanding shares of common stock were split
two-for-one.  All share and per share amounts have been restated.

Financial instruments.  The Company considers all liquid interest-earning
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to
be cash equivalents.  Short-term investments generally mature between three
months and five years from the purchase date.  All cash and short-term
investments are classified as available for sale and are recorded at market.
Cost approximates market for all classifications of cash and short-term
investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses were not material.

Publicly tradeable equity securities are recorded at market; unrealized gains
and losses are reflected in stockholders' equity.

Property, plant, and equipment.  Property, plant, and equipment is stated at
cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the
estimated life of the asset or the lease term, ranging from one to 30 years.
<PAGE>
 
Reclassifications.  Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent
presentation.

Unearned Revenue

In fiscal 1996, Microsoft committed to integrating its Internet technologies,
such as the Company's Internet browser, Microsoft Internet Explorer, into
existing products at no additional cost to its customers.  Given this strategy
and other support commitments such as telephone support, Internet-based
technical support, and unspecified product enhancements, Microsoft recognizes
approximately 20% of Windows operating systems revenue over the product life
cycles, currently estimated at two years.  The unearned portion of revenue from
Windows operating systems was $425 million and $860 million at June 30, 1996 and
1997.

Since Office 97 is also tightly integrated with the rapidly evolving Internet,
and subsequent delivery of new Internet technologies, enhancements, and other
support is likely to be more than minimal, a ratable revenue recognition policy
became effective for Office 97 licenses beginning in 1997.  Approximately 20% of
Office 97 revenue is recognized ratably over the estimated 18-month product life
cycle. Unearned revenue associated with Office 97 totaled $300 million at June
30, 1997.

Unearned revenue also includes maintenance and other subscription contracts,
including custom corporate license agreements.

Financial Risks

The Company's investment portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of
short-term investment grade securities.  At June 30, 1996 and 1997,
approximately 38% and 31% of accounts receivable represented amounts due from 10
channel purchasers.  One customer accounted for approximately 12%, 13%, and 12%
of revenue while another customer accounted for approximately 12%, 8%, and 5% of
revenue in 1995, 1996, and 1997.

Finished goods sales to international customers in Europe, Japan, and Australia
are primarily billed in local currencies.  Payment cycles are relatively short,
generally less than 90 days.  European manufacturing costs and international
selling, distribution, and support costs are generally disbursed in local
currencies.  Local currency cash balances in excess of short-term operating
needs are generally converted into U.S. dollar cash and short-term investments
on receipt.  Therefore, foreign exchange rate fluctuations generally do not
create a risk of material balance sheet gains or losses.  As a result,
Microsoft's hedging activities for balance sheet exposures have been minimal.

At June 30, 1997, the Company had contracts to deliver $500 million in a foreign
currency, expiring July 1998, which hedge foreign exchange rate risk related to
a foreign currency denominated investment.

Foreign exchange rates affect the translated results of operations of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries.  The Company hedges a percentage of planned
international revenue with purchased options.  The notional amount of the
options outstanding at June 30, 1997 was $2.1 billion.  At June 30, 1997, the
fair value and premiums paid for the options were not material.

Cash and Short-Term Investments

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                        1996         1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>          <C>
Cash and equivalents:
  Cash                                        $   64       $  246
  Commercial paper                             1,664        1,660
  Money market preferreds                        105          946
  Certificates of deposit                        768          854
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Cash and equivalents                       2,601        3,706
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term investments:
  Municipal securities                         1,357          571
  Corporate notes and bonds                    1,125        1,907
  U.S. Treasury securities                     1,591        1,513
  Certificates of deposit                        266        1,269
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Short-term investments                     4,339        5,260
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Cash and short-term investments         $6,940       $8,966
=================================================================
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
 
Property, Plant, and Equipment

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                        1996          1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>           <C>
Land                                         $   183       $   183
Buildings                                        787         1,027
Computer equipment                               885         1,064
Other                                            491           503
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment--at cost        2,346         2,777
Accumulated depreciation                      (1,020)       (1,312)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment--net          $ 1,326       $ 1,465
==================================================================
</TABLE>

During 1996 and 1997, depreciation expense, of which the majority related to
computer equipment, was $363 million and $353 million; disposals were
immaterial.

Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes consisted of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                    1995         1996          1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>         <C>           <C>
Current taxes:
  U.S. and state                      $ 518       $1,139        $1,710
  International                         151          285           412
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Current taxes                       669        1,424         2,122
Deferred taxes                           45         (240)         (262)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Provision for income taxes          $ 714       $1,184        $1,860
======================================================================
</TABLE>

U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                   1995         1996         1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>
U.S.                                $1,549       $2,356       $3,775
International                          618        1,023        1,539
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
  Income before income taxes        $2,167       $3,379       $5,314
====================================================================
</TABLE>

Income taxes payable were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                        1996          1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>           <C>
Deferred income tax assets:
  Revenue items                                $ 193         $ 474
  Expense items                                  322           505
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred income tax assets                   515           979
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred income tax liabilities:
  International earnings                        (261)         (465)
  Other                                           (6)           (4)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred income tax liabilities             (267)         (469)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Current income tax liabilities                  (732)         (976)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
    Income taxes payable                       $(484)        $(466)
==================================================================
</TABLE>

Income taxes have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service for all years
through 1989.  The IRS has assessed taxes for 1990 and 1991 that the Company is
contesting in Tax Court.  The IRS is examining the Company's U.S. income tax
returns for 1992 through 1994. Management believes any related adjustments that
might be required will not be material to the financial statements.  Income
taxes paid were $430 million, $758 million, and $1.1 billion in 1995, 1996, and
1997.
<PAGE>
 
Convertible Preferred Stock

During December 1996, Microsoft issued 12.5 million shares of 2.75% convertible
exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock.  Dividends are payable
quarterly in arrears.  Preferred shareholders have preference over common
stockholders in dividends and liquidation rights.  In December 1999, each
preferred share is convertible into common shares or an equivalent amount of
cash determined by a formula that provides a floor price of $79.875 and a cap of
$102.24 per preferred share.  Net proceeds of $980 million were used to
repurchase common shares.

Common Stock

Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                   1995          1996          1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
Balance, beginning of year           1,162         1,176         1,194
  Issued                                38            44            47
  Repurchased                          (24)          (26)          (37)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, end of year                 1,176         1,194         1,204
======================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company repurchases its common stock in the open market to provide shares
for issuing to employees under stock option and stock purchase plans.  The
Company's Board of Directors authorized continuation of this program in 1998.

Put Warrants

To enhance its stock repurchase program, the Company sells put warrants to
independent third parties.  These put warrants entitle the holders to sell
shares of Microsoft common stock to the Company on certain dates at specified
prices.  On June 30, 1996 and 1997, 13.0 million and 3.0 million warrants were
outstanding.  Outstanding put warrants at June 30, 1997 expire in September 1997
and have strike prices of $105 per share. At June 30, 1996, the outstanding put
warrants were settleable in cash at Microsoft's option thus resulting in a
reclassification of the maximum potential repurchase obligation of $635 million
from stockholders' equity to put warrants.  The outstanding put warrants at June
30, 1997 permitted a net-share settlement at the Company's option and did not
result in a put warrant liability on the balance sheet.

Employee Stock and Savings Plans

Employee stock purchase plan.  The Company has an employee stock purchase plan
for all eligible employees.  Under the plan, shares of the Company's common
stock may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of the lower of the fair
market value on the first or the last day of each six-month period.  Employees
may purchase shares having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation
during an offering period.  During 1995, 1996, and 1997, employees purchased 2.1
million, 1.8 million, and 1.4 million shares at average prices of $23.38,
$37.72, and $59.64 per share.  At June 30, 1997, 19.4 million shares were
reserved for future issuance.

Savings plan.  The Company has a savings plan, which qualifies under Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Participating employees may defer up to
15% of pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits.  The Company
contributes fifty cents for each dollar a participant contributes, with a
maximum contribution of 3% of a participant's earnings.  Matching contributions
were $12 million, $15 million, and $28 million in 1995, 1996, and 1997.

Stock option plans.  The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers,
and all employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options.
The option exercise price is the fair market value at the date of grant.
Options granted prior to 1995 generally vest over four and one-half years and
expire 10 years from the date of grant.  Options granted during and after 1995
generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date
of grant, while certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire
after 10 years.  At June 30, 1997, options for 113 million shares were vested 
and 290 million shares were available for future grants under the plans.

Stock options outstanding were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
                                               Price per Share
                                        -----------------------------
                                                            Weighted
                             Shares         Range           Average
- --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                          <C>       <C>                  <C>
Balance, June 30, 1994         228     $ 0.16 - $ 25.07        $11.65
  Granted                       44      23.88 -   41.57         25.25
  Exercised                    (35)      0.16 -   23.88          7.91
  Canceled                      (9)      2.56 -   37.50         17.70
                               ---
Balance, June 30, 1995         228       0.77 -   41.57         14.56
  Granted                       57      40.10 -   58.94         44.99
  Exercised                    (40)      0.77 -   45.25         10.75
  Canceled                      (7)      2.59 -   55.44         27.85
                               ---
Balance, June 30, 1996         238       1.10 -   58.94         22.07
  Granted                       55      55.31 -  119.19         58.29
  Exercised                    (45)      1.10 -   58.94         13.27
  Canceled                      (9)     17.00 -   97.13         38.83
                               ---
Balance, June 30, 1997         239       2.24 -  119.19         31.43
=====================================================================
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
 
For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics of outstanding stock
options at June 30, 1997 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               Outstanding options     Exercisable options
                              --------------------------------------------
    Range of       Shares     Remaining    Weighted    Shares    Weighted
 exercise prices                life        average               average
                               (years)       price                 price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>       <C>
  $2.24-$17.00       65          3.5        $ 9.64       64       $ 9.63
  17.01-24.00        65          5.4         20.81       39        20.10
  24.01-55.00        56          5.8         43.13       10        41.02
  55.01-119.19       53          6.6         58.47       --           --
==========================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company follows APB Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, to
account for stock option and employee stock purchase plans.  No compensation
cost is recognized because the option exercise price is equal to the market
price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.  Had compensation cost for
these plans been determined based on the Black-Scholes value at the grant dates
for awards as prescribed by SFAS Statement 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, pro forma net income and earnings per share would have been:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                  1995         1996         1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>          <C>        <C>
 
Pro forma net income               $1,243       $1,902      $3,053
Pro forma earnings per share       $ 0.99       $ 1.48      $ 2.32  
====================================================================
</TABLE>

The pro forma disclosures above include the amortization of the fair value of
all options vested during 1995, 1996, and 1997.  If only options granted during
1996 and 1997 were valued, as prescribed by SFAS 123, pro forma net income would
have been $2,073 million and $3,179 million, and earnings per share would have
been $1.62 and $2.42 for 1996 and 1997.

The weighted average Black-Scholes value of options granted under the stock
option plans during 1995, 1996, and 1997 was $10.46, $17.72, and $23.43.  Value
was estimated using an expected life of five years, no dividends, volatility of
 .30, and risk-free interest rates of 7.0%, 6.0%, and 6.5% in 1995, 1996, and
1997.

MSN, The Microsoft Network

During October 1996, Microsoft and a subsidiary of Tele-Communications, Inc.
(TCI) terminated a partnership under which TCI owned a 20% minority interest in
The Microsoft Network, LLC, owner of the business assets of MSN, an online
service.  Due to the evolving nature of the online industry and the move by MSN
to a Web-based offering, the original direction of the partnership changed and
both Microsoft and TCI agreed to terminate this partnership focused exclusively
on MSN.  In return for approximately $125 million of TCI securities, Microsoft
became the sole owner of MSN and the minority interest on the accompanying
balance sheet was eliminated.  There was no other material financial impact of
the dissolution.

Acquisition

On August 1, 1997, the Company acquired WebTV Networks, Inc. (WebTV), an online
service that enables consumers to experience the Internet through their
televisions via set-top terminals based on proprietary technologies.  A director
of the 
<PAGE>
 
Company owned 10% of WebTV.  Microsoft paid $425 million in stock and
cash for WebTV.  The Company expects to record an in-process R&D write-off of
$300 million in the first quarter of 1998.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company has operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and
support offices and certain equipment.  Rental expense for operating leases was
$86 million, $92 million, and $92 million in 1995, 1996, and 1997.  Future
minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, in millions of dollars,
are: 1998, $67; 1999, $54; 2000, $43; 2001, $30; 2002, $12; and thereafter, $16.

In connection with the Company's communications infrastructure and the operation
of MSN, Microsoft has certain communication usage commitments.  Future related
minimum commitments, in millions of dollars, are: 1998, $133; 1999, $119; 2000,
$92; and 2001, $20.  Also, Microsoft has committed to certain volumes of
outsourced telephone support and manufacturing of packaged product and has
committed $300 million for constructing new buildings.

During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
MSNBC joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel and an
interactive online news service.  Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a
five-year period for its interest in the cable venture, to pay one-half of
operational funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period, and to
guarantee a portion of MSNBC debt.

In an ongoing investigation, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of
Justice requested information from Microsoft concerning various issues.
Microsoft is also subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in
the ordinary course of business.  Management currently believes that resolving
these matters will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial
position or its results of operations.

Geographic Information

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                    1995           1996          1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>              <C>           <C>
Revenue
U.S. operations                    $ 4,495         $ 6,739       $ 8,877
European operations                  1,607           2,215         2,770
Other international operations         821           1,267         1,757
Eliminations                          (986)         (1,550)       (2,046)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total revenue                    $ 5,937         $ 8,671       $11,358
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                            
U.S. operations                    $ 1,414         $ 2,137       $ 3,733
European operations                    444             649         1,013
Other international operations         163             297           469
Eliminations                            17              (5)          (85)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating income           $ 2,038         $ 3,078       $ 5,130
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                         
U.S. operations                    $ 5,862         $ 8,193       $11,630
European operations                  1,806           2,280         3,395
Other international operations         689           1,042           705
Eliminations                        (1,147)         (1,422)       (1,343)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total identifiable assets          $ 7,210       $10,093       $14,387
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
representative of unaffiliated party transactions.  "U.S. operations" include
shipments to customers in the United States, licensing to OEMs, and exports of
finished goods directly to international customers, primarily in Asia, South
America, and Canada. Exports and international OEM transactions are primarily in
U.S. dollars and totaled $1.3 billion, $2.1 billion, and $2.5 billion in 1995,
1996, and 1997.

"Other international operations" primarily include subsidiaries in Japan,
Canada, Australia, and Brazil.  International revenue, which includes European
operations, other international operations, exports, and OEM distribution, was
55%, 56%, and 56% of total revenue in 1995, 1996, and 1997.  Most international
identifiable assets are U.S. dollar denominated investment securities.
<PAGE>
 
Subsidiaries

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399
Microsoft FSC Corp. (U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS)
Microsoft Investments, Inc. (NEVADA)
Microsoft Licensing, Inc. (NEVADA)
Microsoft Manufacturing B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft Puerto Rico, Inc. (Manufacturing) (DELAWARE)
Microsoft Research Limited (United Kingdom)
The Microsoft Network L.L.C. (DELAWARE)
GraceMac Corporation (NEVADA)
Vermeer Technologies, Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft de Argentina S.A.
Microsoft Pty. Limited (AUSTRALIA)
Microsoft Gesellschaft m.b.H. (AUSTRIA)
Microsoft N.V.  (BELGIUM)
Microsoft Informatica Limitada (BRAZIL)
Microsoft Canada Co.
SOFTIMAGE, Inc. (CANADA)
Microsoft Chile S.A.
Microsoft Colombia Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft de Centroamerica S.A. (COSTA RICA)
Microsoft Hrvatska d.o.o. (CROATIA)
Microsoft s.r.o. (CZECH REPUBLIC)
Microsoft Danmark ApS (DENMARK)
Microsoft Del Ecuador S.A.
Microsoft Corporation (Representative Office) (EGYPT)
Microsoft Oy (FINLAND)
Microsoft France S.A.R.L.
Microsoft G.m.b.H. (GERMANY)
SOFTIMAGE G.m.b.H. (GERMANY)
Microsoft Hellas S.A. (GREECE)
Microsoft de Guatemala, S.A.
Microsoft Hong Kong Limited
Microsoft Hungary Kft.
Microsoft Corporation (India) Private Limited
PT. Microsoft Indonesia
Microsoft Israel Ltd.
Microsoft S.p.A. (ITALY)
Microsoft Cote d'Ivoire (IVORY COAST)
Microsoft Company, Limited (JAPAN)
East Africa Software Limited (KENYA)
Microsoft CH (KOREA)
Microsoft (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Microsoft Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Microsoft Maroc S.A.R.L. (MOROCCO)
<PAGE>
 
Microsoft B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft International B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft New Zealand Limited
Microsoft Norge AS (NORWAY)
Microsoft de Panama, S.A.
Microsoft (China) Company Limited (THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA)
Microsoft Peru, S.A.
Microsoft Philippines, Inc.
Microsoft sp. z.o.o. (POLAND)
MSFT-Software Para Microcomputadores, LDA (PORTUGAL)
Microsoft Caribbean, Inc. (PUERTO RICO) (DELAWARE)
Microsoft Romania SRL
Microsoft ZAO (RUSSIA)
Microsoft Singapore Pte Ltd
Microsoft Slovakia s.r.o.
Microsoft d.o.o., Ljubljana (SLOVENIA)
Microsoft (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited (SOUTH AFRICA)
Microsoft Iberica S.R.L. (SPAIN)
Microsoft Aktiebolag (SWEDEN)
Microsoft AG (SWITZERLAND)
Microsoft Taiwan Corporation
Microsoft (Thailand) Limited
Microsoft Bilgisayar Yazilim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi (TURKEY)
Microsoft Corporation (UNITED ARAB EMIRATES)
Microsoft Limited (UNITED KINGDOM)
SOFTIMAGE U.K. Limited
Microsoft Uruguay S.A.
Corporation MS 90 de Venezuela S.A.
The Resident Representative Office of MICROSOFT Corporation in Hanoi (VIETNAM)
DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C. (WASHINGTON, 50% owned)
MSBET L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSFDC, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSNBC Cable, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSNBC Interactive News, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
<PAGE>
 
Independent Auditors' Report
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Microsoft Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries as of June 30, 1996 and 1997, and the related statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders' equity for each of the three years ended June 30,
1997.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries as of
June 30, 1996 and 1997, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years ended June 30, 1997 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States and International Accounting
Standards.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Seattle, Washington
July 17, 1997 (August 1, 1997 as to Acquisition Note)
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     Exhibit 23.

Independent Auditors' Consent

Microsoft Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Numbers
33-06335, 33-18381, 33-25575, 33-33695, and 33-37623 (Microsoft Corporation 1981
Stock Option Plan), 33-44302 and 33-51583 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock
Option Plan), 33-37622 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan), 33-10732 (Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan), 33-36498 (Microsoft
Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors), 33-45617 (Microsoft
Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors), 333-16665
(Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan) and 333-06298 of
Microsoft Corporation on Forms S-8 and 33-29823, 33-34794, 33-36347, 33-46958,
33-49496, 33-56039, 33-57277, 33-57899, 33-58867, 33-62725, 33-63471, 33-64870,
333-857, 333-1177, 333-2759, 333-5961, 333-8081, 333-12441, 333-17143, 333-
18055, 333-18195, 333-23621, and 333-31803 of Microsoft Corporation on Forms S-3
and 333-26411 of Microsoft Corporation on Form S-4 of our report dated July 17,
1997 (August 1, 1997 as to Acquisition Note) appearing in and incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the
year ended June 30, 1997.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Seattle, Washington
September 26, 1997
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
ACCOMPANYING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE
TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
       
<S>                                                <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                     YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1997
<CASH>                                           8,966
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                      980
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                          0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                10,373
<PP&E>                                           2,777
<DEPRECIATION>                                   1,312
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  14,387
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            3,610
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                        980
<COMMON>                                         4,509
<OTHER-SE>                                       5,288
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    14,387
<SALES>                                         11,358
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                11,358
<CGS>                                            1,085
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    1,085
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 5,143
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  5,314
<INCOME-TAX>                                     1,860
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              3,439
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     3,439
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     2.63
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     2.63
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
