-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 J9C6AeU30+vsq7JzEyUCTt5MGXyqM0IMyUTAFud12hDm5SuXaGzQ5nPfEuH1d4ug
 nDyvJ84NdxS/irEdtCSGpQ==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000320193-95-000003.txt : 19950210
<IMS-HEADER>0000320193-95-000003.hdr.sgml : 19950210
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000320193-95-000003
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19941230
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950209
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLE COMPUTER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000320193
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS [3571]
		IRS NUMBER:				942404110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10030
		FILM NUMBER:		95506795

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20525 MARIANI AVE
		CITY:			CUPERTINO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95014
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4089961010
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-Q
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>


   ___________________________________________________________________________




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549


                                    Form 10-Q

          (Mark One)

          [X]  Quarterly  report pursuant to Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
               Securities  Exchange Act of 1934

          For the quarterly period ended December 30, 1994 or

          [   ]      Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or  15(d)  of
               the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

          For the transition period from __________ to __________

                         Commission file number 0-10030

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


         CALIFORNIA                              94-2404110,
[State or other jurisdiction          [I.R.S. Employer Identification No.]
 of incorporation or organization]              
         


          1 Infinite Loop
        Cupertino California                      95014
[Address of principal executive offices]       [Zip Code]


      Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (408)  996-1010


Indicate  by  check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes  [X]  No   [ ]


   120,762,023 shares of Common Stock Issued and Outstanding as of 
                       February 3, 1995




   
<PAGE>

       PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements


                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited)
                 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    THREE MONTHS ENDED


                                                December 30,    December 31,
                                                     1994            1993
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>

Net sales                                           $ 2,832       $ 2,469

Costs and expenses:

Cost of sales                                         2,018         1,877
Research and development                                132           152
Selling, general and administrative                     415           375
Restructuring costs                                    (17)            --

                                                      2,548         2,404

Operating income                                        284            65
Interest and other income                                
  (expense), net                                         15            --
                         
Income before provision for income taxes                299            65

Provision for income taxes                              111            25

Net income                                          $   188       $    40

Earnings per common and common                      
  equivalent share                                  $  1.55       $   .34

Cash dividends paid per common share                $   .12       $   .12

Common and common equivalent shares
  used in the calculations of                      
  earnings per share                            121,600,188   116,956,648
                                                                    
</TABLE>

                             See accompanying notes.

                                        2
<PAGE>

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                     ASSETS
                                  (In millions)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              December 30,      September 30,
                                                    1994              1994
                                               (Unaudited)           
<S>                                                <C>            <C>
Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents                          $ 1,148        $ 1,203
Short-term investments                                 439             55
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for
  doubtful accounts of $93 ($91 at September           
  30, 1994)                                          1,599          1,581
Inventories:
  Purchased parts                                      455            469
  Work in process                                      167            207
  Finished goods                                       462            412
                                                     1,084          1,088

Deferred tax assets                                    269            293
Other current assets                                   179            256

  Total current assets                               4,718          4,476

Property, plant, and equipment:

Land and buildings                                     489            484
Machinery and equipment                                584            573
Office furniture and equipment                         154            158
Leasehold improvements                                 235            237
                                                     1,462          1,452

Accumulated depreciation and amortization            (801)          (785)

  Net property, plant, and equipment                   661            667

Other assets                                           154            160

                                                   $ 5,533        $ 5,303

</TABLE>

                             See accompanying notes.

                                        3
<PAGE>

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)

                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                              (Dollars in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                              December 30,    September 30,
                                                    1994             1994
                                               (Unaudited)         
<S>                                               <C>          <C>
Current liabilities:

Short-term borrowings                             $    209     $    292
Accounts payable                                       956          882
Accrued compensation and employee benefits             129          137
Accrued marketing and distribution                     275          178
Accrued restructuring costs                             32           58
Other current liabilities                              334          397

  Total current liabilities                          1,935        1,944

Long-term debt                                         304          305
Deferred tax liabilities                               732          671

Shareholders' equity:

Common stock, no par value; 320,000,000
  shares authorized; 119,890,480 shares issued
  and outstanding at December 30, 1994                   
  (119,542,527 shares at September 30, 1994)           309          298
Retained earnings                                    2,270        2,096
Accumulated translation adjustment                    (17)         (11)

  Total shareholders' equity                         2,562        2,383
 
                                                   $ 5,533      $ 5,303
</TABLE>

                             See accompanying notes.

                                        4
<PAGE>

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  (Unaudited)
                                  (In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                THREE MONTHS ENDED

                                             December 30,   December 31,
                                                   1994          1993
<S>                                              <C>          <C>
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning 
of the period                                    $ 1,203       $   676

Operations:

Net income                                           188            40
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash
    generated by operations:
    Depreciation and amortization                     38            43
    Net book value of property, plant, and             
    equipment retirements                              5             7
Changes in assets and liabilities:
   Accounts receivable                              (18)           134
   Inventories                                         4           168
   Other current assets                              101            59
   Accounts payable                                   74           (3)
   Accrued restructuring costs                      (26)          (56)
   Accrued marketing and distribution                 97          (20)
   Other current liabilities                        (71)          (33)
   Deferred tax liabilities                           61            31
         Cash generated by operations                453           370

Investments:

Purchase of short-term investments                 (410)         (151)
Proceeds from sale of short-term investments          25           217
Purchase of property, plant, and equipment          (22)          (24)
Other                                               (12)          (34)
         Cash generated by (used for)            
            investment activities                  (419)             8

Financing:

Decrease in short-term borrowings                   (83)          (71)
Decrease in long-term borrowings                     (1)           (2)
Increases in common stock, net of related
  tax benefits and changes in notes receivable
  from  shareholders                                   9             5
Cash dividends                                       (14)          (14)
         Cash used for financing activities          (89)          (82)


Total cash generated (used)                          (55)           296

Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period      $ 1,148       $   972
</TABLE>
                             See accompanying notes.

                                        5
<PAGE>

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)

1. Interim  information  is  unaudited; however,  in  the  opinion  of  the
   Company's management, all adjustments necessary for a fair statement  of
   interim  results have been included.  All adjustments are  of  a  normal
   recurring nature unless specified in a separate note included  in  these
   Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements.  The results  for  interim
   periods  are  not necessarily indicative of results to be  expected  for
   the  entire year.  These financial statements and notes should  be  read
   in   conjunction  with  the  Company's  annual  consolidated   financial
   statements  and  the notes thereto for the fiscal year  ended  September
   30,  1994, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
   September 30, 1994 (the "1994 Form 10-K").

2. In  the first quarter of 1995, the Company lowered its estimates of  the
   total  remaining costs associated with its restructuring plan  initiated
   in  the  third quarter of 1993 and recorded an adjustment that increased
   income  by  $17 million ($11 million, or $0.09 per share, after  taxes).
   This  adjustment primarily reflected favorable cancellation  settlements
   of   certain  R&D  project  commitments  and  facility  leases  and  the
   completion of other actions at lower costs than originally estimated.

   At   December  30,  1994,  the  Company  had  $32  million  of   accrued
   restructuring   costs  for  actions  that  are  currently   under   way.
   Approximately $26 million in charges to the accrual are expected  to  be
   incurred  during the remainder of 1995 with the remaining $6 million  to
   be  incurred  beyond  1995.  Charges to be incurred beyond  1995  relate
   primarily  to  recurring payments under certain noncancelable  operating
   leases.

   The  following  table  depicts  a  roll-forward  reconciliation  of  the
   activity  in the restructuring accrual balance from September  30,  1994
   to December 30, 1994:
                                                        
                                                               (In millions)

                                 Balance at                        Balance at 
Category                         September                         December
                                 30, 1994   Charges   Adjustments  30, 1994
                                                           
Employee termination payments (C)    $ 11     $  2         $  5        $  4
Provisions relating to employees
  who will not be terminated (C)        4        *            1           3
Termination payments for leases       
  and other contracts (C)              20        3            1          16
Write-down of operating  assets        
  to be sold (N)                        1        *            1          --
Provisions for litigation (C)           2        1           --           1
R&D project cancellations (C)           6        *            5           1
Other provisions and write-downs (B)   13        2            4           7
1991 accrued restructuring costs (B)    1        1           --          --
  
                                     $ 58     $  9         $ 17        $ 32
     
C: Cash; N: Noncash; B: Both cash and noncash;
*:  Less than $1 million

3. Effective  October  1,  1994, the Company adopted  Financial  Accounting
   Standard No. 115 (FAS 115), "Accounting for Certain Investments in  Debt
   and  Equity  Securities".   In accordance with  FAS  115,  prior  period
   financial  statements have not been restated to reflect  the  change  in
   accounting  principle.   The cumulative effect of  the  change  was  not
   material to shareholders' equity as of October 1, 1994.  Under FAS  115,
   debt  securities that a company has both the positive intent and ability
   to  hold  to  maturity are carried at amortized cost.   Debt  securities
   that a company does not have the positive intent and ability to hold  to
   maturity  and all marketable equity securities are classified as  either
   available-for-sale   or  trading  and  are  carried   at   fair   value.
   Generally,  unrealized holding gains and losses on securities classified
   as  available-for-sale  are  carried as  a  component  of  shareholders'
   equity.   Unrealized  holding gains and losses on securities  classified
   as trading are reported in earnings.

   The  Company's  cash  equivalents consist primarily of  certificates  of
   deposit,  time  deposits and commercial paper with maturities  of  three
   months  or less at the date of purchase.  Short-term investments consist
   principally  of  commercial  paper with  maturities  between  three  and
   twelve  months.  As of December 30, 1994, the Company's cash equivalents
   and  short-term  investments are classified as available-for-sale.   The
   related   unrealized   gains  and  losses  on   the   available-for-sale
   securities are not material to

                                        6
<PAGE>

   shareholders' equity as of December 30, 1994.  The Company  did  not
   realize  any  material gains or losses, either individually  or  in  the
   aggregate,  on sales of available-for-sale securities during  the  three
   months ended December 30, 1994.

4. U.S.  income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total of  $360
   million   of   undistributed   earnings   of   the   Company's   foreign
   subsidiaries.   It is intended that these earnings will be  indefinitely
   invested   in  operations  outside  the  United  States.   It   is   not
   practicable  to  determine  the  income  tax  liability  that  might  be
   incurred  if  these earnings were to be distributed.   Except  for  such
   indefinitely  invested earnings, the Company provides  for  federal  and
   state  income  taxes  currently  on undistributed  earnings  of  foreign
   subsidiaries.

   The   Internal   Revenue  Service  has  proposed  federal   income   tax
   deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1988, and the Company  has  made
   prepayments   thereon.    The  Company  has  contested   these   alleged
   deficiencies  and  is  pursuing administrative  and  judicial  remedies.
   Management  believes  that adequate provision  has  been  made  for  any
   adjustments that may result from these tax examinations.

5. Earnings  per  share is computed using the weighted  average  number  of
   common  and  dilutive  common equivalent shares  attributable  to  stock
   options outstanding during the period.

6. Certain prior year amounts on the consolidated statements of cash  flows
   have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.

7. The  information  set  forth  in Item 1 of  Part  II  hereof  is  hereby
   incorporated by reference.



































                                        7
<PAGE>

      Item  2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
      Results of Operations

The   following  information  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with   the
consolidated  financial statements and notes thereto.  All  information  is
based on Apple's fiscal calendar.
(Tabular information: Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Results of Operations
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    First          First
                                  Quarter        Quarter
                                     1995           1994    Change
<S>                             <C>           <C>            <C>

Net sales                       $   2,832     $   2,469      14.7%
Gross margin                    $     814     $     592      37.5%
  Percentage of net sales           28.7%         24.0%
Operating expenses (excluding 
  restructuring costs)          $     547     $     527       3.8%
  Percentage of net sales           19.3%         21.4%
Restructuring costs             $    (17)            --         --
  Percentage of net sales           -0.6%
Net income                      $     188     $      40     370.0%
Earnings per share              $    1.55     $    0.34     355.9%

</TABLE>
Net  sales  for  the  first quarter of 1995 increased over  the  comparable
period of 1994, resulting primarily from a shift in product mix towards the
Company's   higher   margin   products  within   each   product   category.
Specifically, the Company recorded strong sales of its Performa(registered 
trademark)  630,  and of products within the Power Macintosh(trademark) 
family and PowerBook(registered trademark) 500 series of personal  computers.
Increased sales of these products  contributed  to  an increase in the 
average aggregate revenue per Macintosh(registered trademark) computer unit  
of approximately  26% in the first quarter of 1995 over the comparable period
of  1994.  Despite an increase in net sales, total Macintosh computer  unit
sales  remained  relatively flat in the first  quarter  of  1995  over  the
comparable  period  of  1994,  when unit  growth  increased  40%  over  the
comparable  period of 1993.  Unit sales growth resulting from strong  sales
of  the  Company's  Power  Macintosh products and newer  product  offerings
within  the  Performa  family  of  desktop personal  computers  was  almost
completely  offset by a reduction in sales of certain products  within  the
Company's PowerBook family of notebook-sized personal computers and certain
of the Company's older product offerings.

International  net sales grew 19% in the first quarter  of  1995  over  the
comparable period of 1994, primarily reflecting strong net sales growth  in
the Pacific region, particularly Japan.  Net sales for the first quarter of
1995  grew  moderately  in  Europe  over the  comparable  period  of  1994.
International  net sales represented 47% of total net sales for  the  first
quarter  of 1995, compared with 45% for the corresponding period  of  1994.
Domestic  net  sales  grew  11%  in the first  quarter  of  1995  over  the
comparable  period of 1994, primarily resulting from strong growth  in  the
consumer  market,  and  to a lesser extent, from  growth  in  the  business
market.

The  Company has historically experienced increased net sales in its  first
and  fourth quarters, compared with other quarters in its fiscal year,  due
to holiday demand for and calendar year-end buying of some of its products.
The Company does not, however, consider its business to be highly seasonal.

In general, the Company's resellers typically purchase products on an as-
needed  basis  due  to  the  Company's distribution  strategy,  which  is
designed to expedite the filling of orders.  Resellers frequently  change
delivery   schedules  and  order  rates  depending  on  changing   market
conditions.  Unfilled orders ("backlog") can be, and often are,  canceled
at  will.   The Company attempts to fill orders on the requested delivery
schedules.  However, products may be in relatively short supply from time
to  time until production volumes have reached a level sufficient to meet
demand  or  if  other production or fulfillment constraints  exist.   The
Company's  backlog increased slightly to approximately  $670  million  at
February 3, 1995, from approximately $663 million at December 2, 1994.

In  the  Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at  any
particular  time  is  not a meaningful indication of  its  future  business
prospects.   In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation  of  or
immediately following introduction of new products because of over-ordering
by  dealers anticipating shortages.  Backlog often is reduced sharply  once
dealers and customers believe they

                                        8
<PAGE>

can  obtain sufficient supply.  Because of the foregoing, as well as  other
factors affecting the Company's backlog, backlog should not be considered a
reliable   indicator   of  the  Company's  future  revenue   or   financial
performance.   Further information regarding the Company's backlog  may  be
found  under  Part  I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q under the heading  "Factors
that  May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which information
is hereby incorporated by reference.

Gross Margin

Gross  margin  increased both in amount and as a percentage  of  net  sales
during  the first quarter of 1995 over the comparable period of  1994.  The
increase  in  gross  margin as a percentage of net sales  was  primarily  a
result  of  a  shift  in  product mix towards the Company's  higher  margin
products  within each product category which included strong sales  of  the
Company's  entry level Macintosh Performa 630, and of products  within  its
Power Macintosh family and its PowerBook 500 series of personal computers.

The  increase in gross margin levels in the first quarter of 1995 over  the
comparable  period of 1994 was affected somewhat favorably  by  changes  in
foreign  currency  exchange  rates as a result  of  a  weaker  U.S.  dollar
relative  to certain foreign currencies during such period.  The  Company's
operating strategy and pricing take into account changes in exchange  rates
over   time;   however,  the  Company's  results  of  operations   can   be
significantly  affected  in  the  short term  by  fluctuations  in  foreign
currency exchange rates.

Although  the  Company's gross margin percentage was 28.7%  for  the  first
quarter  of 1995, resulting primarily from strong sales of Power  Macintosh
computers  and the PowerBook 500 series of notebook personal computers,  it
is anticipated that gross margins will remain under pressure and could fall
below  prior years' levels worldwide due to a variety of factors, including
continued  industrywide  pricing  pressures,  increased  competition,   and
compressed product life cycles.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Research and Development            First       First
                                  Quarter      Quarter
                                     1995        1994       Change
<S>                             <C>          <C>            <C>

Research and development        $  132       $  152         -13.2%
Percentage of net sales           4.7%         6.2%
</TABLE>
Research  and development expenditures decreased both in amount  and  as  a
percentage of net sales in the first quarter of 1995 when compared with the
corresponding  period  of  1994.  This decrease  primarily  reflects  lower
product development expenditures resulting from the Company's restructuring
actions  aimed at reducing costs as well as fewer new product introductions
in  the  first  quarter of 1995 compared with the corresponding  period  of
1994.

The Company believes that continued investments in research and development
are  critical  to  its  future  growth  and  competitive  position  in  the
marketplace  and are directly related to continued, timely  development  of
new  and  enhanced  products.  The Company anticipates  that  research  and
development expenditures will increase in amount and as a percentage of net
sales  as  a result of additional projects scheduled to begin in the  later
quarters of 1995.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    First       First
                                  Quarter      Quarter
Selling, General and                 1995        1994       Change
Administrative
<S>                                 <C>         <C>         <C>
Selling, general and              
 administrative                   $   415     $   375       10.7%
Percentage of net sales             14.7%       15.2%
</TABLE>

Selling,  general and administrative expenses increased in  amount  in  the
first  quarter of 1995 when compared with the corresponding period of 1994.
This  increase was primarily a result of increased advertising and  channel
marketing  program spending as the Company continued its efforts to  expand
market share.  Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as  a
percentage of net sales in the first quarter of 1995 when compared with the
corresponding period of 1994, as a result of an increase in  the  level  of
net  sales  and  the Company's ongoing efforts to manage operating  expense
growth.



                                        9
<PAGE>

The  Company  will  continue  to face the challenge  of  managing  selling,
general  and  administrative  expenses relative  to  gross  margin  levels,
particularly in light of the Company's expectation of continued pressure on
gross  margin, and continued competitive pressures worldwide.  The  Company
anticipates that selling, general and administrative expenses will decrease
in  amount during the remaining quarters of 1995, but will continue  to  be
higher than 1994 levels.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Restructuring costs                 First       First
                                  Quarter     Quarter
                                     1995        1994      Change
<S>                              <C>               <C>         <C>

Restructuring costs              $   (17)          --          --
Percentage of net sales            (0.6%)          --          --
</TABLE>
For  information  regarding the Company's restructuring actions,  refer  to
Note  2  of  the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)  in
Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information  is
hereby incorporated by reference.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Interest and Other Income           First       First
(Expense), Net                    Quarter      Quarter
                                     1995        1994      Change
<S>                               <C>         <C>          <C>

Interest and other income        
  (expense), net                  $    15     $     0      100.0%

</TABLE>
Interest  and  other income (expense), net increased by  approximately  $15
million  in  income  in the first quarter of 1995 compared  with  the  same
period  in  1994.   Higher cash and short-term investment balances  coupled
with higher investment interest rates resulted in increased interest income
of approximately $8 million.  Other factors contributing to the increase in
interest  and  other income (expense), net include a net gain from  foreign
exchange  activity and a decrease in interest expense resulting from  lower
worldwide short-term borrowing balances.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Provision for Income Taxes          First       First
                                  Quarter      Quarter
                                     1995        1994      Change
<S>                               <C>           <C>       <C>

Provision for income taxes        $   111       $  25     344.0%
Effective tax rate                    37%         38%
</TABLE>
The  information contained in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report  on  Form
10-Q is incorporated by reference into this discussion.

Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition

The   Company's  future  operating  results  and  financial  condition  are
dependent  on  the Company's ability to successfully develop,  manufacture,
and  market  technologically innovative products in order to  meet  dynamic
customer demand patterns.  Inherent in this process are a number of factors
that  the  Company  must successfully manage in order to achieve  favorable
future operating results and financial condition.

Product Introductions and Transitions

Due  to the highly volatile nature of the personal computer industry, which
is   characterized   by  dynamic  customer  demand   patterns   and   rapid
technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products  and
product  enhancements.   The  success  of  new  product  introductions   is
dependent  on  a  number  of  factors,  including  market  acceptance,  the
Company's  ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions,
the  availability of application software for new products,  the  effective
management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and
the manufacturing of products in appropriate quantities to meet anticipated
demand.  Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that
new products will have on its sales or results of operations.
                                       10
<PAGE>

On  March 14, 1994, the Company introduced Power Macintosh, a new  line  of
Macintosh  computers based on a new PowerPC family of RISC microprocessors.
The  Company's  results  of  operations  and  financial  condition  may  be
adversely  affected if it is unable to successfully complete the transition
of  its  lines  of personal computers and servers from the  Motorola  68000
series of microprocessors to the PowerPC(registered trademark) 
microprocessor.  The success  of this ongoing transition will depend on the 
Company's ability to continue to sell  products based on the Motorola 68000 
series of microprocessors  while gaining  market acceptance of the new 
PowerPC processor-based products,  to successfully  manage inventory levels 
of both product lines simultaneously, and  to  continue to coordinate the 
timely development and distribution  by independent   software  vendors  of
new  "native"  software   applications specifically designed for the PowerPC
processor-based products.

The  rate of product shipments immediately following introduction of a  new
product  is  not necessarily an indication of the future rate of  shipments
for  that  product, which depends on many factors, some of  which  are  not
under  the control of the Company.  These factors may include initial large
purchases by a small segment of the user population that tends to  purchase
new  technology  prior to its acceptance by the majority of  users  ("early
adopters");  purchases  in  satisfaction of pent-up  demand  by  users  who
anticipated  new  technology and as a result deferred  purchases  of  other
products; and over-ordering by dealers who anticipate shortages due to  the
aforementioned factors.  The preceding may also be offset by other factors,
such  as  the  deferral of purchases by many users until new technology  is
accepted  as  "proven"  and for which commonly used software  products  are
available;  and the reduction of orders by dealers once they  believe  they
can obtain sufficient supply of product previously in backlog.

Backlog  is  often  volatile after new product  introductions  due  to  the
aforementioned  demand  factors, often increasing sharply  coincident  with
introduction, and then reducing sharply once dealers and customers  believe
they can obtain sufficient supply of product.

The  measurement  of  demand  for  newly  introduced  products  is  further
complicated by the availability of different product configurations,  which
may   include   various  types  of  built-in  peripherals   and   software.
Configurations may also require certain localization (such as language) for
various markets and, as a result, demand in different geographic areas  may
be  a  function  of  the  availability of  third-party  software  in  those
localized  versions.   For example, the availability  of  European-language
versions of software products manufactured by U.S. producers may lag behind
the availability of U.S. versions by a quarter or more. This may result  in
lower  initial  demand for the Company's new products  outside  the  United
States, although localized versions of the products may be available.

Competition

The  personal computer industry is highly competitive and continues  to  be
characterized  by  consolidations in the hardware and software  industries,
aggressive pricing practices, and downward pressure on gross margins.   The
Company's  results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
affected  should the Company be unable to effectively manage the impact  of
industrywide pricing pressures and continue to realize the anticipated cost-
reduction benefits associated with the restructuring plan initiated in  the
third quarter of 1993.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may also  be
affected   by   the  Company's  ability  to  offer  customers   competitive
technologies while effectively managing the impact on inventory levels  and
the potential for customer confusion created by product proliferation.

On  November  7, 1994, the Company reached an agreement with  International
Business  Machines Corporation (IBM) and Motorola, Inc. on a  new  hardware
reference  platform  for the PowerPC microprocessor  that  is  intended  to
deliver a much wider range of operating system and application choices  for
computer customers.  As a result of this agreement, the Company intends  to
make  the  Macintosh  operating system available on  the  common  platform.
Accordingly,    the  Company's  future  operating  results  and   financial
condition  may  be  affected by its ability to implement this  and  certain
other  collaboration agreements entered into, and to manage the  associated
competitive risk.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may also  be
affected  by the Company's ability to increase market share in its personal
computer  business.  Although the Company recently announced the  licensing
of the Macintosh operating system to other personal computer vendors, it is
currently  the  only  maker of hardware that uses the  Macintosh  operating
system, and it has a minority market share in the personal computer market,
which  is  dominated  by  makers of computers  that  run  the  
MS-DOS(registered trademark)  and Microsoft  Windows(trademark)  
operating systems.  Certain of the Company's  personal computer products are
capable of running application software designed  for the MS-DOS or Windows 
operating system, through software emulation of Intel Corporation 
microprocessor

                                       11
<PAGE>

chips  by use of software specifically designed for the Company's products,
either those based on the Motorola 68000 series of microprocessors or those
based  on the PowerPC microprocessor.  The Company also recently introduced
products  which include both the RISC-based PowerPC 601 microprocessor  and
the  486  DX2/66  microprocessor  which  enable  users  to  switch  between
Macintosh and DOS computing environments.  In addition, as a result of  the
collaboration  agreement  noted  in the preceding  paragraph,  the  Company
believes  it may have the opportunity to increase its market share  in  the
personal  computer  business  as  the Macintosh  operating  system  becomes
available on computers based on the new hardware reference platform.

Decisions  by  customers to purchase the Company's personal  computers,  as
opposed  to  MS-DOS  or  Windows-based systems,  are  often  based  on  the
availability  of  third-party  software for particular  applications.   The
Company  believes that the availability of third-party application software
for  the  Company's  hardware products depends in part on  the  third-party
developers' perception and analysis of the relative benefits of  developing
such software for the Company's products versus software for the larger MS-
DOS  and  Windows market.  This analysis is based on factors  such  as  the
relative  market share of the Company's products, the anticipated potential
revenue  that  may  be  earned, and the costs of developing  such  software
products.

In  an  effort to increase overall market share, the Company has  commenced
licensing  the  Macintosh  operating  system  to  other  personal  computer
vendors.  The Company anticipates that the licensing activities will result
in  a  variety of these vendors bringing to market personal computers  that
will run application software based on the Macintosh operating system.  The
Company  also believes that licensing will offer software vendors a broader
installed  base on which they can develop and provide technical innovations
for the Macintosh platform, but there can be no assurance on the number  of
or  the  rate  at  which vendors will bring to market application  software
based  on the Macintosh operating system.  Accordingly, the Company  cannot
determine  the  ultimate effect that licensing of the  Macintosh  operating
system will have on its sales or results of operations.

Microsoft  Corporation is the developer of the MS-DOS and Windows operating
systems,  which  are  the  principal competing  operating  systems  to  the
Company's  Macintosh  operating system.  Microsoft  is  also  an  important
developer of application software for the Company's products.  Accordingly,
Microsoft's  interest in producing application software for  the  Company's
products may be influenced by Microsoft's perception of its interests as an
operating system vendor.

The  Company's ability to produce and market competitive products  is  also
dependent  on the ability of IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers  of  the
new  PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain of the Company's products,  to
continue  to  supply to the Company microprocessors which produce  superior
price/performance  results compared with those supplied  to  the  Company's
competitors  by  Intel  Corporation, the  developer  and  producer  of  the
microprocessors  used  by  most personal computers  using  the  MS-DOS  and
Windows  operating systems.  IBM produces personal computers based  on  the
Intel microprocessors as well as on the PowerPC microprocessor, and is also
the  developer  of  OS/2,  a competing operating system  to  the  Company's
Macintosh  operating system.  Accordingly, IBM's interest in supplying  the
Company  with  improved  versions  of  microprocessors  for  the  Company's
products  may  be  influenced by IBM's perception of  its  interests  as  a
competing  manufacturer of personal computers and as a competing  operating
system vendor.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may also  be
affected  by  the  Company's   ability  to  successfully  expand  its   new
businesses  and product offerings into other markets, such as  the  markets
for on-line services and personal digital assistant (PDA) products.

Global Market Risks

A  large portion of the Company's revenue is derived from its international
operations.   As  a result, the Company's operations and financial  results
could  be significantly affected by international factors, such as  changes
in  foreign  currency  exchange rates or weak economic  conditions  in  the
foreign  markets in which the Company distributes its products.   When  the
U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the U.S. dollar value  of
non-U.S.  dollar-based sales decreases.  When the U.S. dollar weakens,  the
U.S.    dollar   value   of   non-U.S.   dollar-based   sales    increases.
Correspondingly,  the  U.S.  dollar value of  non-U.S.  dollar-based  costs
increases  when the U.S. dollar weakens and decreases when the U.S.  dollar
strengthens.   Overall, the Company is a net receiver of  currencies  other
than  the  U.S. dollar and, as such, benefits from a weaker dollar  and  is
adversely  affected  by  a  stronger dollar relative  to  major  currencies
worldwide.   Accordingly, changes in exchange rates may  negatively  affect
the  Company's consolidated sales and gross margins (as expressed  in  U.S.
dollars).



                                       12
<PAGE>

To mitigate the short-term impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates on
the   Company's  non-U.S.  dollar-based  sales,  product  procurement,  and
operating  expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non-U.S. dollar-based
exposures.  Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange  forward
and  option  contracts to hedge firmly committed transactions.   Currently,
hedges of firmly committed transactions do not extend beyond one year.  The
Company  also purchases foreign exchange option contracts to hedge  certain
other probable, but not firmly committed transactions.  Hedges of probable,
but  not  firmly committed transactions do not extend beyond one year.   To
reduce  the  costs  associated with these ongoing foreign exchange  hedging
programs,  the  Company  also  regularly  sells  foreign  exchange   option
contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions.  All
foreign  exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for as hedges,
including all transactions intended to reduce the costs associated with the
Company's foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried at fair value  and
are adjusted on each balance sheet date for changes in exchange rates.

While  the Company is exposed with respect to fluctuations in the  interest
rates  of  many  of  the  world's  leading  industrialized  countries,  the
Company's interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations  in
the  general level of U.S. interest rates.  In this regard, changes in U.S.
interest  rates  affect  the interest earned on the  Company's  cash,  cash
equivalents,  and short-term investments as well as interest  paid  on  its
short-term  borrowings  and  long-term debt.  To  mitigate  the  impact  of
fluctuations in U.S. interest rates, the Company has entered into  interest
rate swap and option transactions.  Certain of these swaps are intended  to
better match the Company's floating-rate interest income on its cash,  cash
equivalents,  and  short-term  investments  with  the  fixed-rate  interest
expense on its long-term debt.  The Company also enters into interest  rate
swap,  swaption, and option transactions in order to extend  the  effective
duration  of  a  portion  of  its  cash, cash  equivalent,  and  short-term
investment portfolios. These swaps may extend the Company's cash investment
horizon up to a maximum effective duration of three years.

To  ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's foreign exchange
and  interest  rate hedge positions, as well as to monitor  the  risks  and
opportunities of the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually  monitors
its  foreign  exchange forward and option positions, and its interest  rate
swap,  swaption,  and  option  positions on  a  stand-alone  basis  and  in
conjunction  with  its  underlying foreign  currency-  and  interest  rate-
related  exposures, respectively, from both an accounting and  an  economic
perspective.   However, given the effective horizons of the Company's  risk
management  activities, there can be no assurance that  the  aforementioned
programs  will  offset more than a portion of the adverse financial  impact
resulting from unfavorable movements in either foreign exchange or interest
rates.  As such, the Company's operating results and financial position may
be adversely affected.

Inventory

The  Company's  products  include  certain  components,  such  as  specific
microprocessors  manufactured  by  Motorola,  Inc.,  that   are   currently
available   only  from  single  sources.   Any  availability   limitations,
interruptions in supplies, or price increases of these and other components
could  adversely affect the Company's business and financial results.   The
Company's  future  operating results and financial condition  may  also  be
adversely affected by the Company's ability to manage inventory levels  and
lead times required to obtain components in order to be more responsive  to
short-term shifts in customer demand patterns.  In addition, if anticipated
unit  sales  growth for new and current product offerings is not  realized,
inventory  valuation reserves may be necessary that would adversely  affect
the Company's results of operations and financial condition.

Certain of the Company's products include components which are manufactured
by  suppliers  located  in  Japan.  As a result of  the  January  17,  1995
earthquake  in Kobe, Japan, supplies of these components may be constrained
due to potential damage to facilities of the Company's direct suppliers and
their  source suppliers located in or around the earthquake area.  However,
at  the date of this Form 10-Q, the full impact of the damage to facilities
and  supply chains is not known, and as a result, the Company cannot  fully
determine the effect of the earthquake on its future operating results  and
financial condition.

Marketing and Distribution

A number of uncertainties exist regarding the marketing and distribution of
the  Company's  products.   Currently,  the  Company's  primary  means   of
distribution  is  through  third-party  computer  resellers.   However,  in
response  to  changing  industry practices and  customer  preferences,  the
Company is continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such as
mass-merchandise  stores  (for  example,  Sears  and  Wal-Mart),   consumer
electronics outlets, and computer superstores.  The Company's business  and
financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition of
these sellers weakens or if sellers within consumer channels decide not  to
continue to distribute the Company's products.


                                       13
<PAGE>

Other Factors

The  majority  of  the Company's research and development  activities,  its
corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are  located
near  major  seismic faults. The Company's operating results and  financial
condition  could be materially adversely affected in the event of  a  major
earthquake.

The Company plans to replace its current transaction systems (which include
order  management, distribution, manufacturing, and finance) with a  single
integrated  system  as  part of its ongoing effort to increase  operational
efficiency.  The Company's future operating results and financial condition
could  be  adversely affected by its ability to implement  and  effectively
manage the transition to this new integrated system.

Because  of  the foregoing factors, as well as other factors affecting  the
Company's   operating  results  and  financial  condition,  past  financial
performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator  of  future
performance,  and investors should not use historical trends to  anticipate
results   or  trends  in  future  periods.   In  addition,  the   Company's
participation  in  a highly dynamic industry often results  in  significant
volatility of the Company's common stock price.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Liquidity and Capital Resources
                                              First
                                             Quarter
                                               1995
<S>                                         <C>

Cash,  cash  equivalents and short-term
  investments, net of short-term   
  borrowings                                $ 1,378

Cash generated by operations                $   453

Cash used for investment activities,
  excluding short-term investments          $    34

Cash used for financing activities          $    89
</TABLE>
The Company's financial position with respect to cash, cash equivalents and
short-term  investments, net of short-term borrowings increased  to  $1,378
million at December 30, 1994 from $966 million at September 30, 1994.  This
increase  was primarily attributable to the Company's continued efforts  to
increase profit levels and to manage working capital, particularly  in  the
areas of inventory and accounts receivable.

Cash  generated by operations during the first three months of 1995 totaled
$453  million.  Cash was generated primarily by higher sales levels related
to  a  shift in product mix towards higher-margin products which  typically
have higher average selling prices.

Net  cash  used  for the purchase of property, plant and equipment  totaled
approximately  $22  million  during  the  first  quarter  of  1995.   These
purchases  primarily included manufacturing machinery and  equipment.   The
Company  anticipates that capital expenditures in 1995 will  be  relatively
consistent with 1994 expenditures of $160 million.

Short-term  borrowings at December 30, 1994 were approximately $83  million
lower  than  at September 30, 1994, as commercial paper borrowing  activity
decreased  due to the increased level of cash generated by operations.   In
general, the Company's short-term borrowings reflect borrowings made  under
its   commercial   paper   program  and  short-term  uncommitted   bid-line
arrangements  with certain commercial banks.  In particular,  Apple  Japan,
Inc.,  a  wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, incurred short-term  yen-
denominated borrowings from several Japanese banks during 1994, the balance
of  which  aggregated  the  U.S. dollar equivalent  of  approximately  $209
million at December 30, 1994.

Long-term  borrowings  of  $304  million  at  December  30,  1994  remained
consistent  with  the  balance at September 30,  1994.   Substantially  the
entire  amount  of  long-term borrowings represents $300 million  aggregate
principal  amount  of 6.5% unsecured notes issued under  an  omnibus  shelf
registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in
1994.   This shelf registration covers the registration of debt  and  other
securities  for  an  aggregate offering price of up to $500  million.   The
notes were

                                       14
<PAGE>

sold  at 99.925% of par, for an effective yield to maturity of 6.51%.   The
notes pay interest semi-annually and mature on February 15, 2004.

The  Company  expects that it will continue to incur short-  and  long-term
borrowings  from  time to time to finance U.S. working  capital  needs  and
capital expenditures, because a substantial portion of the Company's  cash,
cash   equivalents,  and  short-term  investments  is   held   by   foreign
subsidiaries, generally in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings.  Amounts  held
by  foreign  subsidiaries  would be subject to U.S.  income  taxation  upon
repatriation to the United States; the Company's financial statements fully
provide for any related tax liability on amounts that may be repatriated.

The  Internal  Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies
for  the  years  1984  through 1988, and the Company has  made  prepayments
thereon.   The  Company  has contested these alleged  deficiencies  and  is
pursuing  administrative  and judicial remedies. Management  believes  that
adequate  provision has been made for any adjustments that may result  from
these tax examinations.

The Company believes that its balances of cash, cash equivalents, and short-
term  investments, together with funds generated from operations and short-
and  long-term  borrowing  capabilities, will be  sufficient  to  meet  its
operating cash requirements on a short- and long-term basis.


PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

Reference is made to page 39 of the Company's 1994 Annual Report on Form 10-
K  under the subheading "Litigation" for a discussion of certain litigation
involving   Microsoft   Corporation  and  Hewlett-Packard   Company;   1993
Securities  and State Court Shareholders Action Litigation; and  litigation
involving a complaint filed by Jerome Lemelson.

In  the  case of Apple Computer, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett-
Packard  Company, the Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari  in
                                                     ------------------
the Supreme Court of the United States on December 19, 1994.

On December 9, 1994, Lemelson v. Apple Computer, Inc. was resolved.

The  Company continues to believe the pending suits cited above,  in  which
the  Company is a defendant, to be without merit and intends to  vigorously
defend  against these actions.  The Company believes the resolution of  all
of  these  matters will not have a material adverse effect on its financial
condition  and  results  of  operations as  reported  in  the  accompanying
financial  statements.  However, depending on the amount and timing  of  an
unfavorable resolution of these lawsuits, it is possible that the Company's
future results of operations or cash flows could be materially affected  in
a particular period.

Item 6.  Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

a) Exhibits

         Exhibit
          Number      Description

            3.3       By-Laws  of  the  Company,  as  amended  through
                      November 2, 1994

            11        Computation of per share earnings

            27        Financial Data Schedule

b) Reports on Form 8-K

   None.


                                       15
<PAGE>









                                    SIGNATURE

Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934,  the
Registrant  has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf  by  the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.















                               APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                  (Registrant)








DATE:   February 8, 1995       BY /s/ Joseph A. Graziano

                                 Joseph A. Graziano
                                 Executive Vice President and
                                 Chief Financial Officer













                                       16

<PAGE>



                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS


  Exhibit    Description                                 Page Number
   Index


    3.3      By-Laws  of  the Company, as  amended           18
             through November 2, 1994


    11       Computation of per share earnings               38

    27       Financial Data Schedule                         39










































                                       17
<PAGE>

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>

<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>



                                     BY-LAWS

                                       OF

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                           (a California corporation)


                      (as amended through November 2, 1994)


                                    Article I

                                     OFFICES

      Section 1.1:   Principal Office.  The principal executive office  for
the  transaction of the business of this corporation shall  be  1  Infinite
Loop,  Cupertino,  California  95014.  The Board  of  Directors  is  hereby
granted  full  power and authority to change the location of the  principal
executive office from one location to another.

     Section 1.2:   Other Offices.  One or more branch or other subordinate
offices  may at any time be fixed and located by the Board of Directors  at
such  place or places within or without the State of California as it deems
appropriate.


                                   Article II

                                    DIRECTORS

      Section  2.1:    Exercise of Corporate Powers.  Except  as  otherwise
provided  by  these  By-Laws,  by the Articles  of  Incorporation  of  this
corporation  or by the laws of the State of California now or hereafter  in
force,  the  business and affairs of this corporation shall be managed  and
all  corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction  of  the
Board of Directors.

      Section  2.2:    Number.  The number of directors of the  corporation
shall  be not less than five (5) nor more than nine (9).  The exact  number
of  directors  shall be nine (9) until changed within the limits  specified
above,  by  a  by-law amending this section, duly adopted by the  Board  of
Directors  or by the shareholders.  The indefinite number of directors  may
be  changed, or a definite number fixed without provision for an indefinite
number, by a duly adopted amendment to the Articles of Incorporation or  by
an amendment to this by-law duly adopted by the vote or written consent of



                                       18
<PAGE>

holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; provided,
however, that an amendment reducing the fixed number or the minimum  number
of  directors to a number less than five (5) cannot be adopted if the votes
cast  against its adoption at a meeting of the shareholders, or the  shares
not  consenting in the case of action by written consent, are equal to more
than 16-2/3% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.  No amendment  may
change  the  stated  maximum number of authorized  directors  to  a  number
greater than two times the stated minimum number of directors minus one.

      Section  2.3:    Need  Not Be Shareholders.  The  directors  of  this
corporation need not be shareholders of this corporation.

      Section 2.4:   Compensation.  Directors and members of committees may
receive  such compensation, if any, for their services as may be  fixed  or
determined  by  resolution  of  the Board  of  Directors.   Nothing  herein
contained  shall  be construed to preclude any director from  serving  this
corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.

      Section  2.5:   Election and Term of Office.  The directors shall  be
divided  into  two classes, designated Class I and Class  II.   Each  class
shall consist of one-half of the directors or as close an approximation  as
possible.   The  initial term of office of the directors of Class  I  shall
expire  at  the annual meeting to be held during fiscal year 1991  and  the
initial  term  of office of the directors of Class II shall expire  at  the
annual meeting to be held during fiscal year 1992.  At each annual meeting,
commencing with the annual meeting to be held during fiscal year 1991, each
of  the  successors  to the directors of the class whose  term  shall  have
expired  at  such annual meeting shall be elected for a term running  until
the second annual meeting next succeeding his or her election and until his
or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.

      Section  2.6:   Vacancies.  A vacancy or vacancies on  the  Board  of
Directors shall exist in case of the death, resignation or removal  of  any
director, or if the authorized number of directors is increased, or if  the
shareholders  fail,  at  any annual meeting of shareholders  at  which  any
director is elected, to elect the full authorized number of directors to be
voted  for at that meeting.  The Board of Directors may declare vacant  the
office  of a director if he or she is declared of unsound mind by an  order
of court or convicted of a felony or if, within 60 days after notice of his
or her election, he or she does not accept the office.  Any vacancy, except
for  a vacancy created by removal of a director as provided in Section  2.7
hereof,  may be filled by a person selected by a majority of the  remaining
directors then in office, whether or not less than a quorum, or by  a  sole
remaining  director.   Vacancies occurring in the  Board  of  Directors  by
reason  of  removal  of  directors shall be  filled  only  by  approval  of
shareholders.  The shareholders may elect a director at any  time  to  fill
any  vacancy  not  filled by the directors.  Any such election  by  written
consent  requires  the  consent of a majority  of  the  outstanding  shares
entitled  to vote.  If, after the filling of any vacancy by the  directors,
the  directors  then  in office who have been elected by  the  shareholders
shall constitute less than a majority of the directors then in office,  any
holder  or  holders of an aggregate of 5% or more of the  total  number  of
shares  at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors
may  call a special meeting of shareholders to be held to elect the  entire
Board  of  Directors.  The term of office of any director  shall  terminate
upon  such election of a successor.  Any director may resign effective upon
giving  written  notice to the Chairman of the Board,  if  any,  the  Chief
Executive  Officer, the President, the Secretary or the Board of  Directors
of  this  corporation, unless the notice specifies a  later  time  for  the
effectiveness  of such resignation.  If the resignation is effective  at  a
future time, a successor may be elected to take office

                                       19
<PAGE>

when  the  resignation becomes effective.  A reduction  of  the  authorized
number  of  directors shall not remove any director prior to the expiration
of such director's term of office.

      Section  2.7:    Removal.  The  entire  Board  of  Directors  or  any
individual  director  may  be  removed without  cause  from  office  by  an
affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to  vote;
provided that, unless the entire Board of Directors is removed, no director
shall be removed when the votes cast against removal, or not consenting  in
writing  to  such  removal, would be sufficient to elect such  director  if
voted  cumulatively  (without regard to whether such shares  may  be  voted
cumulatively) at an election at which the same total number of  votes  were
cast,  or, if such action is taken by written consent, all shares  entitled
to  vote were voted, and either the number of directors elected at the most
recent  annual  meeting  of  shareholders, or if  greater,  the  number  of
directors  for whom removal is being sought, were then being  elected.   If
any  or  all directors are so removed, new directors may be elected at  the
same  meeting or at a subsequent meeting. If at any time a class or  series
of  shares  is  entitled  to  elect one or more directors  under  authority
granted  by  the  Articles  of  Incorporation  of  this  corporation,   the
provisions  of  this Section 2.7 shall apply to the vote of that  class  or
series and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole.

      Section 2.8:   Powers and Duties.  Without limiting the generality or
extent  of  the general corporate powers to be exercised by  the  Board  of
Directors  pursuant to Section 2.1 of these By-Laws, it is hereby  provided
that  the  Board  of Directors shall have full power with  respect  to  the
following matters:

           (a)   To  purchase,  lease, and acquire any  and  all  kinds  of
property, real, personal or mixed, and at its discretion to pay therefor in
money,  in property and/or in stocks, bonds, debentures or other securities
of this corporation.

           (b)  To enter into any and all contracts and agreements which in
its  judgment  may  be  beneficial to the interests and  purposes  of  this
corporation.

           (c)   To  fix  and determine and to vary from time to  time  the
amount  or  amounts  to be set aside or retained as  reserve  funds  or  as
working   capital   of  this  corporation  or  for  maintenance,   repairs,
replacements or enlargements of its properties.

          (d)  To declare and pay dividends in cash, shares and/or property
out  of any funds of this corporation at the time legally available for the
declaration and payment of dividends on its shares.

           (e)  To adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of  its
meetings  and the management of the affairs of this corporation as  it  may
deem proper.

           (f)   To prescribe the manner in which and the person or persons
by  whom  any  or  all  of the checks, drafts, notes,  bills  of  exchange,
contracts and other corporate instruments shall be executed.

           (g)  To accept resignations of directors; to declare vacant  the
office  of  a director as provided in Section 2.6 hereof; and, in  case  of
vacancy in the office of directors, to fill the same to the extent provided
in Section 2.6 hereof.

                                       20
<PAGE>

           (h)   To create offices in addition to those for which provision
is  made  by  law  or these By-Laws; to elect and remove  at  pleasure  all
officers  of  this corporation, fix their terms of office, prescribe  their
powers and duties, limit their authority and fix their salaries in any  way
it  may deem advisable which is not contrary to law or these By-Laws;  and,
if  it  sees fit, to require from the officers or any of them security  for
faithful service.

           (i)  To designate some person to perform the duties and exercise
the  powers of any officer of this corporation during the temporary absence
or disability of such officer.

           (j)   To appoint or employ and to remove at pleasure such agents
and  employees  as  it may see fit, to prescribe their titles,  powers  and
duties,  limit their authority, and fix their salaries in any  way  it  may
deem  advisable which is not contrary to law or these By-Laws; and,  if  it
sees  fit,  to  require  from  them or any of them  security  for  faithful
performance.

          (k)  To fix a time in the future, which shall not be more than 60
days  nor less than 10 days prior to the date of the meeting nor more  than
sixty  (60)  days prior to any other action for which it  is  fixed,  as  a
record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of
and  to  vote  at  any meeting, or entitled to receive any payment  of  any
dividend or other distribution, or allotment of any rights, or entitled  to
exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action; and in such case
only  shareholders  of  record on the date so fixed shall  be  entitled  to
notice  of  and  to  vote  at  the meeting  or  to  receive  the  dividend,
distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as the  case
may  be,  notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books  of  this
corporation  after  any  record date fixed  as  aforesaid.   The  Board  of
Directors  may  close  the books of this corporation against  transfers  of
shares during the whole or any part of such period.

          (l)  To fix and locate from time to time the principal office for
the  transaction of the business of this corporation and one or more branch
or  other  subordinate  office or offices of  this  corporation  within  or
without  the State of California; to designate any place within or  without
the  State of California for the holding of any meeting or meetings of  the
shareholders  or the Board of Directors, as provided in Sections  10.1  and
11.1 hereof; to adopt, make and use a corporate seal, and to prescribe  the
forms of certificates for shares and to alter the form of such seal and  of
such  certificates from time to time as in its judgment it may  deem  best,
provided such seal and such certificates shall at all times comply with the
provisions of law now or hereafter in effect.

           (m)   To  authorize  the issuance of shares  of  stock  of  this
corporation in accordance with the laws of the State of California and  the
Articles of Incorporation of this corporation.

           (n)   Subject to the limitation provided in Section 14.2 hereof,
to  adopt, amend or repeal from time to time and at any time these  By-Laws
and any and all amendments thereof.

           (o)   To  borrow money and incur indebtedness on behalf of  this
corporation, including the power and authority to borrow money from any  of
the  shareholders, directors or officers of this corporation, and to  cause
to  be  executed  and delivered therefor in the corporate  name  promissory
notes,   bonds,   debentures,   deeds   of   trust,   mortgages,   pledges,
hypothecations, or other evidences of debt and securities therefor, and the
note  or  other obligation given for any indebtedness of this  corporation,
signed  officially by any officer or officers thereunto duly authorized  by
the Board of Directors shall be binding on this corporation.
                                       21
<PAGE>

           (p)   To  designate  and  appoint committees  of  the  Board  of
Directors  as it may see fit, to prescribe their names, powers  and  duties
and  limit  their authority in any way it may deem advisable which  is  not
contrary to law or these By-Laws.

           (q)   Generally to do and perform every act and thing whatsoever
that may pertain to the office of a director or to a board of directors.

                                   Article III

                                    OFFICERS

      Section  3.1:    Election and Qualifications.  The officers  of  this
corporation shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or
more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer and such other
officers,  including,  but  not limited to, a  Chairman  of  the  Board  of
Directors,  a Treasurer, and Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers
as the Board of Directors shall deem expedient, who shall be chosen in such
manner and hold their offices for such terms as the Board of Directors  may
prescribe.  Any two or more of such offices may be held by the same person.
Any   Vice   President,   Assistant  Treasurer  or   Assistant   Secretary,
respectively,  may  exercise  any of the  powers  of  the  Chief  Executive
Officer,  the  President, the Chief Financial Officer,  or  the  Secretary,
respectively, as directed by the Board of Directors, and shall perform such
other duties as are imposed upon him or her by the By-Laws or the Board  of
Directors.

      Section  3.2:   Term of Office and Compensation.  The term of  office
and  salary of each of said officers and the manner and time of the payment
of  such  salaries shall be fixed and determined by the Board of  Directors
and may be altered by said Board from time to time at its pleasure, subject
to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment.  Any
officer  may  resign at any time upon written notice to  this  corporation,
without  prejudice  to  the rights, if any, of this corporation  under  any
contract  to  which the officer is a party. If any vacancy  occurs  in  any
office of this corporation, the Board of Directors may elect a successor to
fill such vacancy.

                                   Article IV

                              CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD

      Section  4.1:    Powers and Duties.  The Chairman  of  the  Board  of
Directors, if there be one, shall have the power to preside at all meetings
of  the  Board of Directors and shall have such other powers and  shall  be
subject  to  such other duties as the Board of Directors may from  time  to
time prescribe.

                                    Article V

                             CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

      Section 5.1:   Powers and Duties.  The powers and duties of the Chief
Executive Officer are:
          (a)  To act as the general manager and chief executive officer of
this corporation and, subject to the control of the Board of Directors,  to
have general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs
of this corporation.

                                       22
<PAGE>



           (b)  To preside at all meetings of the shareholders and, in  the
absence  of  the Chairman of the Board or if there be no Chairman,  at  all
meetings of the Board of Directors.

           (c)   To call meetings of the shareholders and meetings  of  the
Board of Directors to be held at such times and, subject to the limitations
prescribed  by law or by these By-Laws, at such places as he or  she  shall
deem proper.

           (d)   To  affix the signature of this corporation to all  deeds,
conveyances, mortgages, leases, obligations, bonds, certificates and  other
papers  and instruments in writing which have been authorized by the  Board
of  Directors  or  which, in the judgment of the Chief  Executive  Officer,
should be executed on behalf of this corporation; to sign certificates  for
shares  of stock of this corporation; and, subject to the direction of  the
Board  of  Directors,  to  have general charge  of  the  property  of  this
corporation and to supervise and control all officers, agents and employees
of this corporation.


                                   Article VA

                                    PRESIDENT

      Section  5A.1:   Powers and Duties.  The powers  and  duties  of  the
President are:

           (a)   To  act  as  the general manager of this corporation  and,
subject  to  the  control  of  the  Board of  Directors,  to  have  general
supervision,  direction and control of the business  and  affairs  of  this
corporation.

           (b)  To preside at all meetings of the shareholders and, in  the
absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer or  if
there  be  no Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, at all meetings  of  the
Board of Directors.

           (c)   To  affix the signature of this corporation to all  deeds,
conveyances, mortgages, leases, obligations, bonds, certificates and  other
papers  and instruments in writing which have been authorized by the  Board
of Directors or which, in the judgment of the President, should be executed
on  behalf of this corporation; to sign certificates for shares of stock of
this  corporation; and, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors,
to have general charge of the property of this corporation and to supervise
and control all officers, agents and employees of this corporation.

          Section 5A.2:  President Pro Tem.  If neither the Chairman of the
Board,  the Chief Executive Officer, the President, nor any Vice  President
is  present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a President  pro  tem
may  be  chosen to preside and act at such meeting.  If neither  the  Chief
Executive Officer, the President nor any Vice President is present  at  any
meeting  of the shareholders, a President pro tem may be chosen to  preside
at such meeting.





                                       23
<PAGE>



                                   Article VI
                                 VICE PRESIDENT

      Section.  6.1:  Powers and Duties.  The titles, powers and duties  of
the  Vice President or Vice Presidents shall be prescribed by the Board  of
Directors.   In  case  of the absence, disability or  death  of  the  Chief
Executive  Officer, the President, the Vice President, or one of  the  Vice
Presidents, shall exercise all his or her powers and perform all his or her
duties.   If there is more than one Vice President, the order in which  the
Vice  Presidents  shall  succeed to the powers  and  duties  of  the  Chief
Executive Officer or President shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors.


                                   Article VII

                                    SECRETARY

      Section  7.1:    Powers and Duties.  The powers  and  duties  of  the
Secretary are:

           (a)  To keep a book of minutes at the principal executive office
of  this  corporation, or such other place as the Board  of  Directors  may
order, of all meetings of its directors and shareholders with the time  and
place  of  holding,  whether  regular or  special,  and,  if  special,  how
authorized,  the  notice  thereof given, the  names  of  those  present  at
directors'  meetings,  the  number  of shares  present  or  represented  at
shareholders' meetings and the proceedings thereof.

           (b)   To keep the seal of this corporation and to affix the same
to all instruments which may require it.

           (c)   To  keep  or  cause to be kept at the principal  executive
office  of  this  corporation, or at the office of the  transfer  agent  or
agents, a record of the shareholders of this corporation, giving the  names
and  addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares  held
by  each,  the  number and date of certificates issued for shares  and  the
number  and  date  of  cancellation of every  certificate  surrendered  for
cancellation.

           (d)   To  keep  a  supply of certificates  for  shares  of  this
corporation,  to  fill in all certificates issued, and  to  make  a  proper
record  of  each  such issuance; provided that so long as this  corporation
shall  have  one or more duly appointed and acting transfer agents  of  the
shares, or any class or series of shares, of this corporation, such  duties
with  respect to such shares shall be performed by such transfer  agent  or
transfer agents.

          (e)  To transfer upon the share books of this corporation any and
all  shares  of this corporation; provided that so long as this corporation
shall  have  one or more duly appointed and acting transfer agents  of  the
shares, or any class or series of shares, of this corporation, such  duties
with  respect to such shares shall be performed by such transfer  agent  or
transfer  agents, and the method of transfer of each certificate  shall  be
subject to the reasonable regulations of the transfer

                                       24
<PAGE>

agent to which the certificate is presented for transfer and, also, if this
corporation  then  has  one or more duly appointed and  acting  registrars,
subject  to  the  reasonable regulations of the registrar to  which  a  new
certificate is presented for registration; and provided, further,  that  no
certificate for shares of stock shall be issued or delivered or, if  issued
or  delivered, shall have any validity whatsoever until and unless  it  has
been signed or authenticated in the manner provided in Section 12.3 hereof.

          (f)   To make service and publication of all notices that may  be
necessary or proper and without command or direction from anyone.  In  case
of  the  absence, disability, refusal or neglect of the Secretary  to  make
service  or  publication of any notices, then such notices  may  be  served
and/or  published by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or  a  Vice
President,  or by any person thereunto authorized by either of them  or  by
the  Board  of Directors or by the holders of a majority of the outstanding
shares of this corporation.

           (g)   Generally to do and perform all such duties as pertain  to
such office and as may be required by the Board of Directors.


                                  Article VIII

                             CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

      Section 8.1:   Powers and Duties.  The powers and duties of the Chief
Financial Officer are:

          (a)   To  supervise  and control the keeping and  maintaining  of
adequate and correct accounts of this corporation's properties and business
transactions,  including  accounts of its  assets,  liabilities,  receipts,
disbursements, gains, losses, capital, surplus and shares.   The  books  of
account  shall  at  all  reasonable times be  open  to  inspection  by  any
director.

           (b)  To have the custody of all funds, securities, evidences  of
indebtedness and other valuable documents of this corporation and,  at  his
or  her  discretion, to cause any or all thereof to be  deposited  for  the
account of this corporation with such depository as may be designated  from
time to time by the Board of Directors.

           (c)  To receive or cause to be received, and to give or cause to
be  given, receipts and acquittances for moneys paid in for the account  of
this corporation.

           (d)   To  disburse, or cause to be disbursed, all funds of  this
corporation  as  may  be  directed  by the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  the
President  or  the  Board  of Directors, taking proper  vouchers  for  such
disbursements.

           (e)  To render to the Chief Executive Officer, the President  or
to  the  Board of Directors, whenever either may require, accounts  of  all
transactions  as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition  of
this corporation.

           (f)   Generally to do and perform all such duties as pertain  to
such office and as may be required by the Board of Directors.

                                       25
<PAGE>


                                  Article VIIIA

                         APPOINTED VICE PRESIDENTS, ETC.

      Section 8A.l:  Appointed Vice Presidents, Etc.; Appointment,  Duties,
etc.   The Chief Executive Officer of the corporation shall have the power,
in  the exercise of his or her discretion, to appoint additional persons to
hold  positions and titles such as vice president of the corporation  or  a
division  of the corporation or president of a division of the corporation,
or  similar  such titles, as the business of the corporation  may  require,
subject  to  such limits in appointment power as the Board  may  determine.
The  Board  shall be advised of any such appointment at a  meeting  of  the
Board,  and  the appointment shall be noted in the minutes of the  meeting.
The  minutes  shall  clearly  state that  such  persons  are  non-corporate
officers appointed pursuant to this Section 8A.l of these By-laws.

           Each  such appointee shall have such title, shall serve in  such
capacity and shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Chief
Executive Officer of the corporation shall determine.

           Appointees may hold titles such as "president" of a division  or
other  group within the corporation, or "vice president" of the corporation
or  of a division or other group within the corporation.  However, any such
appointee,  absent  specific election by the Board as an elected  corporate
officer,  (i)  shall not be considered an officer elected by the  Board  of
Directors pursuant to Article III of these By-Laws and shall not  have  the
executive  powers  or authority of corporate officers elected  pursuant  to
such  Article  III, (ii) shall not be considered (a) an  "officer"  of  the
corporation for the purposes of Rule 3b-2 promulgated under the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder  (collectively,  the "Act") or an  "executive  officer"  of  the
corporation  for the purposes of Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the  Act,  and
similarly shall not be considered an "officer" of the corporation  for  the
purposes  of Section 16 of the Act (as such persons shall not be given  the
access to inside information of the corporation enjoyed by officers of  the
corporation) or an "executive officer" of the corporation for the  purposes
of  Section 14 of the Act or (b) a "corporate officer" for the purposes  of
Section 312 of the California Corporation Code (the "Code"), except in  any
such  case  as  otherwise required by law, and (iii) shall be empowered  to
represent  himself  or  herself  to third  parties  as  an  appointed  vice
president,  etc., only, and shall be empowered to execute  documents,  bind
the  corporation  or  otherwise act on behalf of the  corporation  only  as
authorized  by  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  or  the  President  of  the
Corporation or by resolution of the Board of Directors.

      An  elected officer of the corporation may also serve in an appointed
capacity hereunder.










                                       26
<PAGE>




                                   Article IX

                               EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

     Section 9.1:   Appointment and Procedure.  The Board of Directors may,
by  resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors,
appoint  from  among  its members an Executive Committee  of  two  or  more
members.   The  Executive  Committee may make its own  rules  of  procedure
subject to Section 11.9 hereof, and shall meet as provided by such rules or
by  a  resolution adopted by the Board of Directors (which resolution shall
take  precedence).   A  majority of the members of the Executive  Committee
shall  constitute  a quorum, and in every case the affirmative  vote  of  a
majority of all members of the Committee shall be necessary to the adoption
of any resolution by such Committee.

      Section 9.2:   Powers.  During the intervals between the meetings  of
the  Board  of  Directors, the Executive Committee, in all cases  in  which
specific  directions shall not have been given by the Board  of  Directors,
shall  have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the  Board  of
Directors in the management of the business and affairs of this corporation
in  such  manner as the Committee may deem best for the interests  of  this
corporation, except with respect to:

            (a)    any  action  for  which  California  law  also  requires
shareholder approval,

          (b)  the filling of vacancies on the Board of Directors or in the
committee,

           (c)  the fixing of compensation of the directors for serving  on
the Board of Directors or on any committee,

          (d)  the amendment or repeal of By-Laws or the adoption of new By-
Laws,

           (e)   the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board  of
Directors which by its express terms is not so amendable or repealable,

          (f)   a  distribution  to the shareholders of  this  corporation,
except at a rate or in a periodic amount or within a price range determined
by the Board of Directors,

           (g)   the  appointment  of  other committees  of  the  Board  of
Directors or the members thereof.









                                       27
<PAGE>


                                    Article X

                            MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS

      Section 10.1:  Place of Meetings.  Meetings (whether regular, special
or  adjourned) of the shareholders of this corporation shall be held at the
principal  executive  office  for  the  transaction  of  business  of  this
corporation,  or  at  any place within or without the State  which  may  be
designated  by  written consent of all the shareholders  entitled  to  vote
thereat,  or  which  may  be  designated by  resolution  of  the  Board  of
Directors.  Any meeting shall be valid wherever held if held by the written
consent  of  all  the shareholders entitled to vote thereat,  given  either
before  or  after  the  meeting  and  filed  with  the  Secretary  of  this
corporation.

       Section  10.2:   Annual  Meetings.   The  annual  meeting   of   the
shareholders shall be held at the hour of 10:00 a.m. on the last  Wednesday
in  January in each year , if not a legal holiday, and if a legal  holiday,
then  on  the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday or  at  such
other time in a particular year as may be designated by written consent  of
all the shareholders entitled to vote thereat or which may be designated by
resolution of the Board of Directors.  Such annual meetings shall  be  held
at  the  place  provided  pursuant to Section  10.1  hereof.   Said  annual
meetings  shall  be held for the purpose of the election of directors,  for
the  making  of  reports  of the affairs of this corporation  and  for  the
transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting.

     Section 10.3:  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the shareholders
for  any  purpose or purposes whatsoever may be called at any time  by  the
President or by the Board of Directors, or by two or more members  thereof,
or  by  one  or more holders of shares entitled to cast not less  than  ten
percent (10%) of the votes at the meeting.  Upon request in writing sent by
registered  mail to the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice  President
or  Secretary,  or delivered to any such officer in person, by  any  person
entitled to call a special meeting of shareholders, it shall be the duty of
such  officer  forthwith to cause notice to be given  to  the  shareholders
entitled to vote that a meeting will be requested by the person or  persons
calling the meeting, which shall be not less than 35 days nor more than  60
days after the receipt of such request.

     Section  10.4:   Notice  of  Meetings.   Notice  of  any  meeting   of
shareholders  shall be given in writing not less than 10 nor more  than  60
days  before the date of the meeting to each shareholder entitled  to  vote
thereat by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or other person charged
with that duty, or if there be no such officer or person, or in case of his
or  her  neglect  or refusal, by any director or shareholder.   The  notice
shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and (i) in the case  of
a special meeting, the general nature of the business to be transacted, and
no  other  business may be transacted, or (ii) in the case  of  the  annual
meeting,  those matters which the Board of Directors, at the  time  of  the
mailing  of  the notice, intends to present for action by the shareholders,
but  any  proper  matter may be presented at the meeting  for  such  action
except  that  notice  must be given or waived in writing  of  any  proposal
relating  to approval of contracts between the corporation and any director
of   this   corporation,  amendment  of  the  Articles  of   Incorporation,
reorganization of this corporation or winding up of this corporation.   The
notice  of  any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall  include
the names of nominees intended at the time of the notice to be presented by
management for election.  Written notice shall be given by this corporation
to any shareholder, either (i) personally or

                                       28
<PAGE>

(ii)  by  mail  or  other means of written communication, charges  prepaid,
addressed  to  such shareholder at such shareholder's address appearing  on
the  books  of  this  corporation or given  by  such  shareholder  to  this
corporation for the purpose of notice.  If a shareholder gives  no  address
or  no  such address appears on the books of this corporation, notice shall
be  deemed  to  have been given if sent by mail or other means  of  written
communication  addressed to the place where the principal executive  office
of  this  corporation  is  located, or if published  at  least  once  in  a
newspaper  of  general circulation in the county in which  such  office  is
located.   The notice shall be deemed to have been given at the  time  when
delivered  personally  or  deposited in the  United  States  mail,  postage
prepaid,  or sent by other means of written communication and addressed  as
hereinbefore provided.  An affidavit of delivery or mailing of  any  notice
in  accordance  with the provisions of this Section 10.4, executed  by  the
Secretary, Assistant Secretary or any transfer agent, shall be prima  facie
evidence  of  the  giving of the notice.  If any notice  addressed  to  the
shareholder  at the address of such shareholder appearing on the  books  of
the corporation is returned to this corporation by the United States Postal
Service marked to indicate that the United States Postal Service is  unable
to  deliver  the  notice  to the shareholder at such  address,  all  future
notices shall be deemed to have been duly given without further mailing  if
the  same shall be available for the shareholder upon written demand of the
shareholder  at  the principal executive office of this corporation  for  a
period  of one year from the date of the giving of the notice to all  other
shareholders.

     Section 10.5:  Consent to Shareholders' Meetings.  The transactions of
any meeting of shareholders, however called and noticed, and wherever held,
are  as  valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call  and
notice, if a quorum is present either in person or by proxy, and if, either
before or after the meeting, each of the shareholders entitled to vote, not
present  in  person  or by proxy, signs a written waiver  of  notice  or  a
consent  to  the  holding  of such meeting or an approval  of  the  minutes
thereof.   All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with  the
corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.  Attendance
of  a  person  at  a meeting shall constitute a waiver of  notice  of  such
meeting,  except when the person objects, at the beginning of the  meeting,
to  the  transaction of any business because the meeting  is  not  lawfully
called  or convened and except that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver
of  any right to object to the consideration of matters required by law  to
be  included  in  the  notice but not so included,  if  such  objection  is
expressly  made at the meeting.  Neither the business to be  transacted  at
nor  the purpose of any regular or special meeting of shareholders need  be
specified  in  any  written  waiver of notice, except  as  to  approval  of
contracts  between this corporation and any of its directors, amendment  of
the  Articles  of  Incorporation, reorganization  of  this  corporation  or
winding up the affairs of this corporation.

      Section  10.6:  Quorum.  The presence in person or by  proxy  of  the
holders  of  a  majority of the shares entitled to vote at any  meeting  of
shareholders  shall  constitute a quorum for the transaction  of  business.
Shares shall not be counted to make up a quorum for a meeting if voting  of
such  shares at the meeting has been enjoined or for any reason they cannot
be  lawfully  voted  at the meeting.  The shareholders present  at  a  duly
called  or  held  meeting  at which a quorum is  present  may  continue  to
transact  business  until  adjournment notwithstanding  the  withdrawal  of
enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other
than adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the shares required
to constitute a quorum.

     Section 10.7:  Adjourned Meetings.  Any shareholders' meeting, whether
or  not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the vote
of a majority of the shares, the holders of

                                       29
<PAGE>

which  are  either present in person or represented by proxy thereat,  but,
except  as provided in Section 10.6 hereof, in the absence of a quorum,  no
other  business  may  be transacted at such meeting.   When  a  meeting  is
adjourned  for more than 45 days or if after adjournment a new record  date
is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall
be  given  to  each shareholder of record entitled to vote  at  a  meeting.
Except  as aforesaid, it shall not be necessary to give any notice  of  the
time and place of the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted
thereat other than by announcement at the meeting at which such adjournment
is  taken.   At  any  adjourned meeting the shareholders may  transact  any
business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.

     Section  10.8:   Voting Rights.  Only persons in  whose  names  shares
entitled  to  vote  stand on the stock records of this corporation  at  the
close  of  business on the business day next preceding  the  day  on  which
notice  is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business  on  the
business  day next preceding the day on which the meeting is  held  or,  if
some  other  day be fixed for the determination of shareholders  of  record
pursuant  to  Section  2.8(j) hereof, then on  such  other  day,  shall  be
entitled  to  vote  at  such  meeting.  The  record  date  for  determining
shareholders  entitled  to  give consent to  corporate  action  in  writing
without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors has  been
taken,  shall be the day on which the first written consent is  given.   In
the  absence of any contrary provision in the Articles of Incorporation  or
in any applicable statute relating to the election of directors or to other
particular matters, each such person shall be entitled to one vote for each
share.

      Section 10.9:  Action by Written Consents.  Any action which  may  be
taken at any annual or special meeting of shareholders may be taken without
a  meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing, setting forth
the  action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding  shares
having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to
authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled  to
vote  thereon  were  present  and  voted.   Unless  the  consents  of   all
shareholders entitled to vote have been solicited in writing, notice of any
shareholder approval of (i) contracts between this corporation and  any  of
its directors, (ii) indemnification of any person, (iii) reorganization  of
this  corporation or (iv) distributions to shareholders upon winding up  of
this  corporation in certain circumstances without a meeting by  less  than
unanimous  written  consent shall be given at  least  10  days  before  the
consummation  of the action authorized by such approval, and prompt  notice
shall  be  given  of the taking of any other corporate action  approved  by
shareholders without a meeting by less than unanimous written  consent,  to
those shareholders entitled to vote who have not consented in writing.  All
notices  given hereunder shall conform to the requirements of Section  10.4
hereto and applicable law.  When written consents are given with respect to
any  shares, they shall be given by and accepted from the persons in  whose
names  such shares stand on the books of this corporation at the time  such
respective  consents are given, or any shareholder's  proxy  holder,  or  a
transferee of the shares or a personal representative of the shareholder or
their  respective  proxy  holders, may revoke  the  consent  by  a  writing
received by this corporation prior to the time that written consents of the
number of shares required to authorize the proposed action have been  filed
with the Secretary of this corporation, but may not do so thereafter.  Such
revocation  is  effective  upon  its  receipt  by  the  Secretary  of  this
corporation.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, directors  may  not
be  elected by written consent except by unanimous written consent  of  all
shares entitled to vote for the election of directors.

      Section  10.10: Elections of Directors. In any election of directors,
the  candidates receiving the highest number of affirmative  votes  of  the
shares entitled to be voted for them up to the number of

                                       30
<PAGE>

directors  to  be  elected by such shares are elected;  votes  against  the
directors  and votes withheld with respect to the election of the directors
shall  have no legal effect.  Elections of directors need not be by  ballot
except  upon  demand made by a shareholder at the meeting  and  before  the
voting begins.

      Section  10.11:  Proxies.  Every person entitled to vote  or  execute
consents shall have the right to do so either in person or by one  or  more
agents  authorized  by  a written proxy executed by  such  person  or  such
person's  duly  authorized  agent and filed  with  the  Secretary  of  this
corporation.  No proxy shall be valid (l) after revocation thereof,  unless
the  proxy is specifically made irrevocable and otherwise conforms to  this
Section  10.11  and applicable law, or (2) after the expiration  of  eleven
months  from  the  date thereof, unless the person executing  it  specifies
therein  the length of time for which such proxy is to continue  in  force.
Revocation may be effected by a writing delivered to the Secretary of  this
corporation  stating  that the proxy is revoked or by  a  subsequent  proxy
executed by, or by attendance at the meeting and voting in person  by,  the
person  executing  the  proxy.  A proxy is not  revoked  by  the  death  or
incapacity  of  the  maker unless, before the vote is  counted,  a  written
notice  of  such  death or incapacity is received by this  corporation.   A
proxy  which  states that it is irrevocable is irrevocable for  the  period
specified  therein when it is held by any of the following or a nominee  of
any  of  the  following: (l) a pledgee, (2) a person who has  purchased  or
agreed  to purchase or holds an option to purchase the shares or  a  person
who  has sold a portion of such person's shares in this corporation to  the
maker of the proxy, (3) a creditor or creditors of this corporation or  the
shareholder  who  extended or continued credit to this corporation  or  the
shareholder in consideration of the proxy if the proxy states that  it  was
given in consideration of such extension or continuation of credit and  the
name of the person extending or continuing the credit, (4) a person who has
contracted  to  perform services as an employee of this corporation,  if  a
proxy  is  required by the contract of employment and if the  proxy  states
that it was given in consideration of such contract of employment, the name
of  the  employee and the period of employment contracted for, (5) a person
designated  by  or  under a close corporation shareholder  agreement  or  a
voting trust agreement.  In addition, a proxy may be made irrevocable if it
is  given to secure the performance of a duty or to protect a title, either
legal  or  equitable, until the happening of events which,  by  its  terms,
discharge  the  obligation secured by it.  Notwithstanding  the  period  of
irrevocability specified, the proxy becomes revocable when  the  pledge  is
redeemed,  the option or agreement to purchase is terminated or the  seller
no  longer  owns any shares of this corporation or dies, the debt  of  this
corporation  or the shareholder is paid, the period of employment  provided
for  in  the contract of employment has terminated or the close corporation
shareholder  agreement  or the voting trust agreement  has  terminated.  In
addition,  a  proxy may be revoked, notwithstanding a provision  making  it
irrevocable, by a purchaser of shares without knowledge of the existence of
the  provision  unless  the existence of the proxy and  its  irrevocability
appears  on the certificate representing such shares.  Every form of  proxy
or  written  consent, which provides an opportunity to specify approval  or
disapproval with respect to any proposal, shall also contain an appropriate
space  marked  "abstain", whereby a shareholder may indicate  a  desire  to
abstain  from  voting his or her shares on the proposal.   A  proxy  marked
"abstain"  by  the shareholder with respect to a particular proposal  shall
not  be  voted  either for or against such proposal.  In  any  election  of
directors,  any form of proxy in which the directors to be voted  upon  are
named therein as candidates and which is marked by a shareholder "withhold"
or  otherwise marked in a manner indicating that the authority to vote  for
the  election  of directors is withheld shall not be voted  either  for  or
against the election of a director.

      Section  10.12:  Inspectors  of  Election.   Before  any  meeting  of
shareholders,  the  Board of Directors may appoint any persons  other  than
nominees for office to act as inspectors of election at

                                       31
<PAGE>

the  meeting  or  its  adjournment.  If no inspectors of  election  are  so
appointed,  the  Chairman of the meeting may, and on  the  request  of  any
shareholder or a shareholder's proxy shall, appoint inspectors of  election
at  the meeting.  The number of inspectors shall be either one (l) or three
(3).   If  inspectors are appointed at a meeting on the request of  one  or
more  shareholders or proxies, the holders of a majority of shares or their
proxies present at the meeting shall determine whether one (l) or three (3)
inspectors are to be appointed.  If any person appointed as inspector fails
to  appear or fails or refuses to act, the Chairman of the meeting may, and
upon the request of any shareholder or a shareholder's proxy shall, appoint
a person to fill that vacancy.

     These inspectors shall:

           (a)   Determine the number of shares outstanding and the  voting
power  of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence  of  a
quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies;

          (b)  Receive votes, ballots, or consents;

           (c)  Hear and determine all challenges and questions in any  way
arising in connection with the right to vote;

          (d)  Count and tabulate all votes or consents;

          (e)  Determine when the polls shall close;

          (f)  Determine the result; and

          (g)  Do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election
or vote with fairness to all shareholders.


                                   Article XI

                              MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS

     Section  11.1:  Place of Meetings.  Meetings (whether regular, special
or  adjourned) of the Board of Directors of this corporation shall be  held
at  the  principal  office  of  this corporation  for  the  transaction  of
business,  as specified in accordance with Section 1.1 hereof,  or  at  any
other place within or without the State which has been designated from time
to  time by resolution of the Board or which is designated in the notice of
the meeting.

      Section  11.2:  Regular Meetings.  Regular meetings of the  Board  of
Directors shall be held after the adjournment of each annual meeting of the
shareholders  (which  regular directors' meeting shall  be  designated  the
"Regular Annual Meeting") and at such other times as may be designated from
time  to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Notice of the  time
and  place of all regular meetings shall be given in the same manner as for
special meetings, except that no such notice need be given if

                                       32
<PAGE>

(l) the time and place of such meetings are fixed by the Board of Directors
or  (2)  the  Regular  Annual Meeting is held at  the  principal  place  of
business  provided  at  Section 1.1 hereof and on  the  date  specified  in
Section 10.2 hereof.

     Section  11.3:  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of  the  Board  of
Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board,  if  any,
or  the President, or any Vice President, or the Secretary or by any two or
more directors.

      Section 11.4:  Notice of Special Meetings.  Special meetings  of  the
Board  of  Directors shall be held upon no less than four days'  notice  by
mail  or 48 hours' notice delivered personally or by telephone or telegraph
to  each  director.  Notice need not be given to any director who  signs  a
waiver  of  notice  or  who attends the meeting without  protesting,  prior
thereto  or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director.   Any
oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either  to
the  director or to a person at the home or office of the director who  the
person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it
to the director.  A notice or waiver of notice need not specify the purpose
of  any meeting of the Board.  If the address of a director is not shown on
the records and is not readily ascertainable, notice shall be addressed  to
him  at  the  city  or  place in which the meetings of  the  directors  are
regularly held.  If the meeting is adjourned for more than 24 hours, notice
of  any  adjournment to another time or place shall be given prior  to  the
time  of the adjourned meeting to all directors not present at the time  of
adjournment.

      Section  11.5:  Quorum.  A majority of all directors elected  by  the
shareholders  and appointed to fill vacancies as provided  in  Section  2.6
hereof  shall  constitute  a  quorum of the  Board  of  Directors  for  the
transaction of business.  Every act or decision done or made by a  majority
of  the  directors  present at a meeting duly held at  which  a  quorum  is
present is the act of the Board of Directors subject to provisions  of  law
relating  to  interested directors and indemnification of  agents  of  this
corporation.  A majority of the directors present, whether or not a  quorum
is  present, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.  A  meeting
at  which  a quorum is initially present may continue to transact  business
notwithstanding  the  withdrawal  of directors,  if  any  action  taken  is
approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.

      Section  11.6:   Conference  Telephone.   Members  of  the  Board  of
Directors  may participate in a meeting through use of conference telephone
or similar communications equipment, so long as all directors participating
in  such meeting can hear one another.  Participation in a meeting pursuant
to this Section 11.6 constitutes presence in person at such meeting.

     Section 11.7:  Waiver of Notice and Consent.  The transactions of  any
meeting  of the Board of Directors, however called and noticed or  wherever
held,  shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular
call and notice, if a quorum is present, and if, either before or after the
meeting,  each  of  the directors not present signs  a  written  waiver  of
notice,  a  consent to holding such meeting or an approval of  the  minutes
thereof.  All such waivers, consents and approvals shall be filed with  the
corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.

      Section  11.8:   Action Without a Meeting.  Any  action  required  or
permitted by law to be taken by the Board of Directors may be taken without
a  meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors shall individually  or
collectively  consent in writing to such action.  Such written  consent  or
consents

                                       33
<PAGE>

shall  be  filed  with  the  minutes of the proceedings  of  the  Board  of
Directors.  Such action by written consent shall have the  same  force  and
effect as the unanimous vote of such directors.

      Section  11.9:  Committees.  The provisions of this Article XI  apply
also to committees of the Board of Directors and action by such committees,
mutatis mutandis.


                                   Article XII

                                SUNDRY PROVISIONS

     Section  12.1:   Instruments in Writing.  All checks, drafts,  demands
for  money and notes of this corporation, and all written contracts of this
corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or  agents,
as  the  Board of Directors may from time to time designate.   No  officer,
agent,  or  employee of this corporation shall have the power to bind  this
corporation by contract or otherwise unless authorized to do so by these By-
Laws or by the Board of Directors.

      Section  12.2:   Shares  Held by the Corporation.   Shares  in  other
corporations  standing  in the name of this corporation  may  be  voted  or
represented and all rights incident thereto may be exercised on  behalf  of
the  corporation by any officer of this corporation authorized so to do  by
resolution of the Board of Directors.

      Section 12.3:  Certificates of Stock.  There shall be issued to every
holder  of shares in this corporation a certificate or certificates  signed
in  the name of this corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors,
if any, or the Chief Executive Officer or the President or a Vice President
and  by the Chief Financial Officer or an Assistant Chief Financial Officer
or  the  Secretary  or any Assistant Secretary, certifying  the  number  of
shares and the class or series of shares owned by the shareholder.  Any  or
all  of  the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile.  In  case  any
officer,  transfer  agent or registrar who has signed  or  whose  facsimile
signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to  be  such
officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued,  it
may  be  issued by this corporation with the same effect as if such  person
were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.

     Section  12.4:  Lost Certificates.  Where the owner of any certificate
for  shares of this corporation claims that the certificate has been  lost,
stolen  or  destroyed, a new certificate shall be issued in  place  of  the
original  certificate if the owner (l) so requests before this  corporation
has  notice that the original certificate has been acquired by a bona  fide
purchaser, (2) files with this corporation an indemnity bond in  such  form
and in such amount as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer, the
President  or  a Vice President of this corporation, and (3) satisfies  any
other  reasonable requirements imposed by this corporation.  The  Board  of
Directors  may adopt such other provisions and restrictions with  reference
to  lost certificates, not inconsistent with applicable law, as it shall in
its discretion deem appropriate.

       Section  12.5:   Certification  and  Inspection  of  By-Laws.   This
corporation  shall keep at its principal executive or business  office  the
original or a copy of these By-Laws as amended or

                                       34
<PAGE>

otherwise  altered  to  date, which shall be  open  to  inspection  by  the
shareholders at all reasonable times during office hours.

      Section 12.6:  Annual Reports.  The making of annual reports  to  the
shareholders is dispensed with and the requirement that such annual reports
be made to shareholders is expressly waived, except as may be directed from
time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.

       Section  12.7:   Fiscal  Quarters.   Each  fiscal  quarter  of   the
Corporation  shall  be comprised of 13 weeks each of  which  shall  end  at
midnight  on Friday of such week, and the fiscal months in any one calendar
quarter shall be comprised of at least four consecutive calendar weeks with
one  week to be added, at management's discretion, to any one month  during
such fiscal year.

      Section 12.8:  Officer Loans and Guaranties.  If the corporation  has
outstanding  shares held of record by 100 or more persons on  the  date  of
approval by the Board of Directors, the corporation may make loans of money
or  property  to,  or  guarantee the obligations of,  any  officer  of  the
corporation or its parent or subsidiaries, whether or not the officer is  a
director, upon the approval of the Board of Directors alone.  Such approval
by the Board of Directors must be determined by a vote of a majority of the
disinterested directors, if it is determined that such a loan  or  guaranty
may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation.  In no event may  an
officer  owning  2%  or  more  of  the outstanding  common  shares  of  the
corporation be extended a loan under this provision.


                                  Article XIII

                          CONSTRUCTION OF BY-LAWS WITH
                         REFERENCE TO PROVISIONS OF LAW

     Section  13.1:   By-Law  Provisions  Additional  and  Supplemental  to
Provisions of Law.  All restrictions, limitations, requirements  and  other
provisions  of  these By-Laws shall be construed, insofar as  possible,  as
supplemental  and  additional to all provisions of law  applicable  to  the
subject matter thereof and shall be fully complied with in addition to  the
said provisions of law unless such compliance shall be illegal.

      Section  13.2:   By-Law Provisions Contrary to or  Inconsistent  with
Provisions   of  Law.   Any  article,  section,  subsection,   subdivision,
sentence, clause or phrase of these By-Laws which, upon being construed  in
the  manner  provided  in  Section 13.1 hereof, shall  be  contrary  to  or
inconsistent with any applicable provision of law, shall not apply so  long
as said provisions of law shall remain in effect, but such result shall not
affect  the  validity or applicability of any other portions of  these  By-
Laws,  it  being  hereby  declared that these By-Laws,  and  each  article,
section,  subsection,  subdivision, sentence, clause,  or  phrase  thereof,
would  have  been  adopted irrespective of the fact that any  one  or  more
articles,  sections,  subsections,  subdivisions,  sentences,  clauses   or
phrases is or are illegal.





                                       35
<PAGE>

                                   Article XIV

                    ADOPTION, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL OF BY-LAWS

      Section  14.1:  By Shareholders.  By-Laws may be adopted, amended  or
repealed  by  the vote or written consent of holders of a majority  of  the
outstanding  shares  entitled to vote.  By-Laws specifying  or  changing  a
fixed  number  of directors  or the maximum or minimum number  or  changing
from  a fixed to a variable board or vice versa may only be adopted by  the
shareholders; provided, however, that a By-Law or amendment of the Articles
of  Incorporation reducing the number or the minimum number of directors to
a  number  less than five cannot be adopted if the votes cast  against  its
adoption at a meeting or the shares not consenting in the case of action by
written  consent  are equal to more than 16-2/3% of the outstanding  shares
entitled to vote.

     Section  14.2:  By the Board of Directors.  Subject to  the  right  of
shareholders to adopt, amend or repeal By-Laws, By-Laws, other than  a  By-
Law or amendment thereof specifying or changing a fixed number of directors
or  the  maximum or minimum number or changing from a fixed to  a  variable
board  or  vice versa, may be adopted, amended or repealed by the Board  of
Directors.  A By-Law adopted by the shareholders may restrict or  eliminate
the power of the Board of Directors to adopt, amend or repeal By-Laws.
                                   Article XV

                        RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF STOCK

     Section 15.1:  Subsequent Agreement or By-Law.  If (a) any two or more
shareholders of this corporation shall enter into any agreement  abridging,
limiting  or  restricting the rights of any one or more of  them  to  sell,
assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or transfer on the books of
this corporation any or all of the shares of this corporation held by them,
and if a copy of said agreement shall be filed with this corporation, or if
(b)  shareholders  entitled  to  vote  shall  adopt  any  By-Law  provision
abridging,   limiting   or  restricting  the  aforesaid   rights   of   any
shareholders,  then,  and  in either of such events,  all  certificates  of
shares  of  stock subject to such abridgments, limitations or  restrictions
shall  have  a  reference thereto endorsed thereon by an  officer  of  this
corporation  and such certificates shall not thereafter be  transferred  on
the  books  of  this corporation except in accordance with  the  terms  and
provisions  of such agreement or ByLaw, as the case may be; provided,  that
no  restriction  shall be binding with respect to shares  issued  prior  to
adoption  of  the  restriction unless the holders of such shares  voted  in
favor of or consented in writing to the restriction.

                                   Article XVI

                     INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS,
                           EMPLOYEES, AND OTHER AGENTS

Section  16.1:  Indemnification of Directors and Officers.  The corporation
shall,  to  the  maximum extent and in the manner permitted  by  the  Code,
indemnify  each of its directors and officers against expenses (as  defined
in  Section 317(a) of the Code), judgments, fines, settlements,  and  other
amounts  actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding
(as  defined in Section 317(a) ofthe Code), arising by reason of  the  fact
that such person is or was an agent of the corporation.  For

                                       36
<PAGE>

purposes  of this Article XVI, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation
includes  any  person  (i)  who is or was a  director  or  officer  of  the
corporation,  (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the  corporation
as  a  director  or  officer  of  another corporation,  partnership,  joint
venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or  officer
of  a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or
of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.

     Section 16.2:  Indemnification of Others.  The corporation shall  have
the  power,  to  the extent and in the manner permitted  by  the  Code,  to
indemnify  each  of  its  employees and agents (other  than  directors  and
officers)  against  expenses (as defined in Section 317(a)  of  the  Code),
judgments,  fines, settlements, and other amounts actually  and  reasonably
incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of
the  Code),  arising by reason of the fact that such person is  or  was  an
agent  of the corporation.  For purposes of this Article XVI, an "employee"
or  "agent" of the corporation (other than a director or officer)  includes
any  person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii)
who  is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee  or
agent  of  another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or  other
enterprise,  or  (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation  which
was  a  predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise
at the request of such predecessor corporation.

      Section 16.3:  Payment of Expenses in Advance.  Expenses incurred  in
defending   any   civil  or  criminal  action  or  proceeding   for   which
indemnification  is  required  pursuant  to  Section  16.1  or  for   which
indemnification   is   permitted  pursuant  to   Section   16.2   following
authorization  thereof by the Board of Directors,  shall  be  paid  by  the
corporation  in  advance  of  the  final  disposition  of  such  action  or
proceeding  upon  receipt  of  an  undertaking  by  or  on  behalf  of  the
indemnified party to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined
that  the indemnified party is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized
in this Article XVI.

      Section 16.4:  Indemnity Not Exclusive.  The indemnification provided
by  this  Article XVI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights  to
which  those  seeking  indemnification may be  entitled  under  any  bylaw,
agreement,  vote of shareholders or disinterested directors  or  otherwise,
both  as  to  action  in an official capacity and as to action  in  another
capacity  while  holding such office, to the extent  that  such  additional
rights to indemnification are authorized in the Articles of Incorporation.

     Section 16.5:  Insurance Indemnification.  The corporation shall  have
the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is
or  was  an Agent of the corporation against any liability asserted against
or incurred by such person in such capacity or arising out of such person's
status  as  such, whether or not the corporation would have  the  power  to
indemnify  him against such liability under the provisions of this  Article
XVI.

     Section 16.6:  Conflicts.  No indemnification or advance shall be made
under  this  Article XVI, except where such indemnification or  advance  is
mandated  by law or the order, judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, in any circumstance where it appears:

           (a)   That  it  would be inconsistent with a  provision  of  the
Articles  of  Incorporation, these bylaws, a resolution of the shareholders
or  an  agreement in effect at the time of the accrual of the alleged cause
of  the  action  asserted  in the proceeding in  which  the  expenses  were
incurred  or  other amounts were paid, which prohibits or otherwise  limits
indemnification; or

           (b)   That it would be inconsistent with any condition expressly
imposed by a court in approving a settlement.
                                       37
<PAGE>

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>

<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

                                   EXHIBIT  11

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Three Months Ended

                                              December      December
                                              30, 1994     31, 1993
                                                       
<C>                                           <C>          <C>
Primary Earnings Per  Share

 Earnings
  Net income applicable to common stock       $ 188,186     $   40,018

 Shares
  Weighted average number of                              
    common shares outstanding                   119,806        116,268

  Adjustment for dilutive
    effect of outstanding stock options           1,794            688
        
  Weighted average number of common
    and common equivalent shares used for    
    primary earnings per share                  121,600        116,956

 Primary earnings per common share            $    1.55     $     0.34

Fully  Diluted Earnings Per Share

 Earnings
  Net  income applicable to common stock      $ 188,186      $  40,018

 Shares
  Weighted average number of                              
    common shares outstanding                   119,806        116,268

  Adjustment for dilutive effect of                          
    outstanding stock options                     1,850            753 

  Weighted average number of
    common and common equivalent     
    shares used for fully diluted 
    earnings per share                          121,656        117,021

 Fully diluted earnings per common share      $    1.55       $   0.34


</TABLE>
                                       38
<PAGE>

THIS  SCHEDULE  CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED  FROM  THE
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AND CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
OF  APPLE  COMPUTER, INC. AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE  TO
SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>

<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>ART. 5 FDS FOR THE FIRST QUARTER OF FY95 FORM 10-Q
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>           5
<MULTIPLIER>                            1,000,000
                                         
<S>                                     <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                           3-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                                        SEP-29-1995
<PERIOD-END>                                             DEC-30-1994

<CASH>                                                         1,148
<SECURITIES>                                                     439
<RECEIVABLES>                                                  1,692
<ALLOWANCES>                                                      93
<INVENTORY>                                                    1,084
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                               4,718
<PP&E>                                                         1,462
<DEPRECIATION>                                                   801
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                                 5,533
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                                          1,935
<BONDS>                                                          304
<COMMON>                                                         309
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                              0
<PREFERRED>                                                        0
<OTHER-SE>                                                     2,253
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                                   5,533

<SALES>                                                        2,832
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                               2,832
<CGS>                                                          2,018
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                                  2,018
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                                 530
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                                   0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                                 7
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                                  299
<INCOME-TAX>                                                     111
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                                              188
<DISCONTINUED>                                                     0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                                    0
<CHANGES>                                                          0
<NET-INCOME>                                                     188
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                                   1.55
<EPS-DILUTED>                                                   1.55
        


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
