-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HbdfVX0uurY8zMv1P2k4lovjMh9hdEUF40+f03Dk7Zke2gw4v8H48o2vl8qmwqlb
 x996F+3siNXB+/q5sl8QqA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001032210-99-001375.txt : 19991227
<SEC-HEADER>0001032210-99-001375.hdr.sgml : 19991227
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001032210-99-001375
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19990630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990928

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MICROSOFT CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000789019
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				911144442
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14278
		FILM NUMBER:		99718734

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY #BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4258828080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE MICROSOFT WAY - BLDG 8
		STREET 2:		NORTH OFFICE 2211
		CITY:			REDMOND
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98052-6399
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10K FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 06/30/1999
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                               ----------------

                                   FORM 10-K

    [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1999

    [_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      For the Transition Period from ___________ to ____________


                        Commission File Number 0-14278

                               ----------------

                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

<TABLE>
     <S>                                                           <C>
            Washington                                             91-1144442
     (State of incorporation)                                      (I.R.S. ID)
</TABLE>

               One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington 98052-6399

                                (425) 882-8080

                               ----------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                     None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                 Common Stock

      2 3/4% Convertible Exchangeable Principal-Protected Preferred Stock

                               ----------------

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]

   The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of September 10, 1999 was $375,039,342,820.

   The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of
September 10, 1999 was 5,141,508,124.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Parts I, II, and IV. Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement
dated September 10, 1999 to be delivered to shareholders in connection with
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held November 10, 1999 are
incorporated by reference into Part III.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                                   FORM 10-K

                    For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1999

                                     INDEX

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                         <C>
                                    Part I
Item 1.  Business.........................................................    1
Item 2.  Properties.......................................................   13
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings................................................   13
Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..............   14
         Executive Officers of the Registrant.............................   14


                                   Part II
Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
         Matters..........................................................   16
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data..........................................   16
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
         Financial Condition..............................................   16
Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.......   16
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................   16
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosures............................................   16


                                   Part III
Item 10. Directors of the Registrant......................................   17
Item 11. Executive Compensation...........................................   17
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...   17
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................   17


                                   Part IV
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
         Form 8-K.........................................................   18
         Signatures.......................................................   19
</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>

                                    PART I

Item 1. Business

General

  Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" or "Microsoft") was founded as a
partnership in 1975 and incorporated in 1981. Microsoft develops,
manufactures, licenses, and supports a wide range of software products for a
multitude of computing devices. Microsoft software includes scalable operating
systems for intelligent devices, personal computers (PCs) and servers; server
applications for client/server environments; knowledge worker productivity
applications; and software development tools. The Company's online efforts
include the MSN(TM) network of Internet products and services; e-commerce
platforms; and alliances with companies involved with broadband access and
various forms of digital interactivity. Microsoft also licenses consumer
software programs; sells PC input devices; trains and certifies system
integrators; and researches and develops advanced technologies for future
software products.

  Microsoft's business strategy emphasizes the development of a broad line of
software products for information technology (IT) professionals, knowledge
workers, developers, and consumers, marketed through multiple channels of
distribution. The Company is divided into three main areas: the Business
Divisions, the Sales and Support Group, and the Operations Group.

  The Business Divisions act in parallel, each with responsibility for the
product planning and marketing strategies for their respective customer
segments. These customer segments are the Windows(R) Platforms segment, the
Business Productivity Applications and Developer segment, and the Consumer,
Commerce, and Other segment.

   The Windows Platforms segment contains three groups. The Business and
Enterprise Group develops and markets PC and server operating systems required
by large organizations and IT professionals. The Consumer Windows Group
oversees and develops operating systems designed primarily for stand-alone PCs
used in homes and small businesses. The Streaming Media Division develops a
digital media platform for streaming music, video, and synchronized multimedia
over the Internet.

  The Business Productivity Applications and Developer segment has two primary
groups organized around providing software and solutions for knowledge workers
and software developers. The Business Productivity Group creates and markets
primarily desktop and server applications. The Developer Group builds
architecture and software tools for developers.

  The Consumer, Commerce, and Other segment includes the Consumer and Commerce
Group and the Home and Retail Division. The Consumer and Commerce Group
provides services to consumers over the Internet and provides software
solutions and services for businesses to conduct commerce on the Internet. The
Home and Retail Division creates and markets productivity programs, learning
and entertainment products, and hardware peripherals. For financial reporting,
revenue from Microsoft Press, consulting, and certification of system
integrators is included in this segment.

   See notes to financial statements for financial information regarding
segment reporting.

  Microsoft has a research lab dedicated to creating new technology and
converting problems into tangible solutions that Microsoft developers can
incorporate into products to meet customers' needs.

  The Sales and Support Group is responsible for building long-term business
relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), enterprises,
small- and medium-sized businesses, application developers, educational
institutions, and consumers. Enterprises are offered tailored license
programs, enterprise-wide support, consulting services, and other specialized
services. The group also manages the channels that serve customers by working
with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. In addition to the OEM channel,
Microsoft has

                                       1
<PAGE>

three major geographic sales organizations: the South Pacific and Americas;
Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia. The Sales and Support group
supports the Company's products with technical support for end users,
developers, and IT departments in organizations.

  The Operations Group is responsible for managing business operations and
overall business planning. This includes the process of manufacturing and
delivering finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such as finance,
administration, human resources, and legal; and the publishing efforts of
Microsoft Press.

Products

 Windows Platforms

  The Windows Platforms segment is responsible for the development of PC and
server platforms, including the Microsoft(R) Windows and Windows NT(R)
operating systems. The segment is also responsible for developing the
Microsoft Internet Explorer browsing software and Microsoft Windows Media(TM)
Technologies. PC operating systems perform a variety of functions, such as
allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software execution,
managing information and communication flow among the various PC components,
and enabling end users to access files and information from a variety of
sources. The Windows NT operating system for servers is an enterprise-wide
platform for building and deploying distributed applications for networked
PCs. The Windows Platforms segment also provides products for developing,
running, and managing Internet and intranet applications and content.

  Windows 98. The successor to Windows 95, Windows 98 is a personal computer
operating system that provides a Web-oriented user interface, better system
performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows 98
supports graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies and provides the ability
to easily add and remove peripheral devices and support for Universal Serial
Bus (USB). Windows 98 was released in June 1998.

  Windows 95. The successor to the MS-DOS(R) operating system and Windows 3.x,
Windows 95 was released in August 1995. Windows 95 is a fully integrated,
multitasking 32-bit operating system, designed to be compatible with Intel
microprocessor-based PCs, most hardware devices, and applications for Windows
3.x and MS-DOS.

  Windows NT Workstation. A fully integrated, multitasking 32-bit PC operating
system, Windows NT Workstation provides security, robustness, and portability.
Windows NT Workstation is designed for mission- critical computing and
provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) for
Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors. Microsoft Windows NT Workstation combines
the Windows 98 operating system interface and usability features with the
reliability and security of Windows NT for the business environment.

  Windows NT Server. Windows NT Server is an operating system foundation for
both server applications and file and print sharing, with network management
features, administration tools, security, and high availability. Windows NT
Server provides a scalable platform for business critical applications and
databases, connectivity, system management, and electronic mail (e-mail)
servers. The operating system integrates Web services such as Microsoft
Internet Information Server, a service used to manage intranet and Internet
functionality, and Microsoft FrontPage(R) Web site creation and management
tool. Windows NT Server, Terminal Server Edition, an extension to the Windows
NT Server, offers the application support of the Windows operating system
platform with the centrally managed environment of the mainframe with
terminal. Windows NT Server Enterprise Edition provides the means for building
and deploying large-scale distributed applications for large and mission-
critical servers featuring comprehensive clustering for scalability and
availability.

  Other Servers. Microsoft Proxy Server creates a single, secure gateway to
the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity to host data and
applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server helps centrally manages
the distributed environment with integrated features, including hardware
inventory, software inventory and metering, software distribution and
installation, and remote troubleshooting tools.

                                       2
<PAGE>

  Windows Media Technologies. Microsoft Windows Media Technologies provide the
ability to create, deliver, and play streaming media files for applications
ranging from news and entertainment to e-commerce and corporate training.
Windows Media Technologies components include the Windows Media Tools, Windows
Media Services streaming server, and Windows Media Player.

 Productivity Applications and Developer

  The Productivity Applications and Developer segment develops desktop
applications, server applications, developer tools, and Web authoring tools.

 Business Productivity

  The Business Productivity Division delivers integrated business productivity
solutions for the knowledge worker, including the Office family of products,
other desktop applications, server applications, and the Windows CE operating
system for productivity appliances.

  Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office is a suite of software programs featuring
seamless integration of the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft
Office is based upon a document-centric concept, with common commands and
extensive use of cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office is available
in several versions, with certain combinations of products, and available for
the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office 2000 integrates
core productivity tools with the Web to simplify publishing Office documents to
an intranet or Internet site, simplifies information system support with a
self-repairing installation, and has enhanced usability with customizable menus
based on IntelliSense(R) technology rules. Products offered in the various
versions include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel
spreadsheet, Microsoft Outlook(TM) messaging and collaboration client,
Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Access
database management application, and others. Microsoft Word is a word-
processing program designed to easily create professional-looking documents for
the Web, e-mail, and print. Microsoft Excel creates data-rich spreadsheets for
universal viewing on the Internet and for collaboration, allows users to
analyze data with charts, and incorporates Microsoft PivotTable(R) views and
graphs. Microsoft Outlook messaging and collaboration client provides a single
location for organizing and managing day-to-day information, including e-mail,
calendars, business contacts, and task lists. Microsoft PowerPoint presentation
graphics program is a complete set of tools for creating professional
presentations. Microsoft Access database management application allows for easy
access and retrieval of information and includes pre-packaged solutions to
create databases quickly. Microsoft FrontPage is a Web site creation and
management tool for Web sites on the Internet or intranets. Microsoft
PhotoDraw(TM) business graphics software is a program for creating custom
business graphics by editing illustrations and photos.

  Other Desktop Application Products. The Company also offers other stand-alone
desktop application products. Microsoft Project is a critical path project
scheduling and resource allocation program. Microsoft Publisher is an easy-to-
use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Most of the applications included
in the various productivity suites are also licensed separately.

  Server Applications. The Microsoft BackOffice(R) family of server
applications is an integrated suite of software products based on Windows NT
Server that includes file and print services, applications, database,
messaging, groupware, desktop management, Internet access, transaction
processing, and host connectivity. The BackOffice suite enables organizations
to share information, collaborate, and manage and deploy business-critical
applications and includes BackOffice Server, Exchange Server, Proxy Server,
Site Server, SQL Server(TM), and others. Microsoft BackOffice Small Business
Server is designed for smaller companies of 25 users or less as an integrated
solution for sharing files, databases, printers, electronic mail, fax services,
applications, and other resources. Microsoft Site Server allows a comprehensive
management of sophisticated Web sites and their content. Microsoft Site Server
Commerce helps businesses engage customers and partners with creating cost-
effective commerce sites and applications, targeted online advertising and
marketing, and personalized promotion.

                                       3
<PAGE>

  Microsoft Exchange Server. The Company's messaging and collaboration server
is Microsoft Exchange Server, which provides e-mail, group scheduling, task
management, and document routing capabilities. Exchange Server offers a
scalable, reliable, and secure environment for multiple clients, and Internet
protocols as part of the core server architecture. It also includes tools to
create collaboration applications.

  Windows CE. The Company delivers software and platform technologies for a
broad range of productivity appliances. Microsoft develops and markets Windows
CE, a scaleable Windows platform for communications, entertainment, and mobile
computing devices. The Windows CE operating system is built around an API that
is consistent with other 32-bit Windows-based operating systems. Windows CE
allows productivity appliances to communicate with each other, share
information with Windows-based PCs, and connect to the Internet. Microsoft
teams up with hardware companies that build Windows CE-based devices.

 Developer

  The Developer Group provides software development tools and distributed
application platforms for developers of Windows-based applications and Internet
applications. These products and services empower independent software
developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters to
create a broad spectrum of applications. Microsoft Windows Distributed interNet
Applications (DNA) Architecture is the application development model for the
Windows platform. Windows DNA specifies how to develop robust, scalable,
distributed applications using the Windows platform; extend existing data and
external applications to support the Internet; and support a wide range of
client devices. Windows DNA provides for the integration of Web and
client/server application development models through the Component Object Model
(COM). COM underlies a large majority of the code developed for Windows and
Windows NT operating systems. COM+, an extension of COM, builds on COM's
integrated services and features, making it easier for developers to create and
use software components in any language, using any tool.

  Developer Tools. Software development tools and computer languages allow
software developers to write programs in a particular computer language and
translate programs into a binary machine-readable set of commands that activate
and instruct PC hardware. The Company develops and markets a number of software
development environments and language compilers. Microsoft Visual C++(R)
development system is the Company's development system for Windows-based
application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic(R) development system
provides easy access to a wide variety of data sources by integrating the
Microsoft Access database engine and the ability to take advantage of
investments in commercial applications. The Microsoft Visual InterDev(TM) Web
development system includes integrated, team-based development tools for
building Web-based applications based on HTML, Script, and components written
in any language. Microsoft Visual J++(TM) development system for Java contains
a high productivity Integrated Development Environment and a collection of
integrated components to create, test, tune, and deploy Java code on multiple
platforms. Microsoft Visual Studio(R) development system for Windows-based
development is a suite of developer tools enabling developers to build
components and applications using Visual Basic, Visual C++, Microsoft Visual
FoxPro(R) database development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual J++.
Developers can subscribe to the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN)(TM)
information service and receive periodic updates via CD-ROMs, magazines, and
several on-line information services.

  Microsoft SQL Server. Microsoft SQL Server(TM) is a scalable, high-
performance database management system designed specifically for distributed
client/server computing. SQL Server has built-in data replication, management
tools, Internet integration, and online analytical processing (OLAP) to aid in
the analysis of information for reporting and data modeling. Its open system
architecture provides a Windows NT-based platform for delivering cost-effective
information solutions.

 Consumer and Commerce

  The Consumer and Commerce Group supplies services and content to consumers
over the Internet and solutions to businesses by providing software and
services to conduct commerce on the Internet. The core

                                       4
<PAGE>

business products and services include MSN Internet Access; WebTV(R) Internet
Service; MSN Portal and vertical properties; and MSN Commerce Platforms.

  The Microsoft Network. MSN Internet Access is a Web-based online service. MSN
provides easy and inexpensive access for users to a wide range of graphically
rich online content. MSN Internet Access provides dial-up Internet access, free
Web-based e-mail through MSN Hotmail, and Microsoft MSN Messenger Service. MSN
Hotmail, one of the largest e-mail services with 40 million members, provides
members with an e-mail account they can access from any PC with Internet access
and has localized versions in French, German, and Japanese. MSN Messenger
Service is a free Internet messaging service that enables users to see when
other users are online to exchange instant messages.

  WebTV. WebTV Networks is an online service that enables consumers to
experience the Internet through their televisions via set-top terminals based
on WebTV(TM) technologies. WebTV operates the WebTV Network Service and
develops the WebTV Internet Terminal and WebTV Plus Receiver, which are
available through the Company's licensees. Future versions of the set-top
terminals will use the Windows CE operating system.

  MSN Portal. The MSN Portal business provides services on the Internet,
encompassing the home page as well as the vertical services. The vertical
services provide an online decision support infrastructure for end users in
many fields such as automobiles, travel, finance, and home purchasing.
Microsoft CarPoint(TM) online automotive service provides objective information
for new car purchases, including test-drive reviews, dealer invoices, surround
videos, and interactive classified advertisements for used car purchasing.
Microsoft Expedia(TM) provides one-stop travel shopping and reservation
services, providing reliable, real-time access to schedule, pricing, and
availability information for airlines, hotels, and major car rental companies.
Microsoft HomeAdvisor(TM) online real estate service is a complete guide to the
home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and
loans on the Internet. MSN MoneyCentral(TM) personal finance online service is
a free interactive personal finance resource to track securities by providing
company and mutual fund research, an investment finder, daily editorial and
market summaries, e-mail notifications and alerts, and access to online trading
through leading financial services firms. MSNBC is an Internet news service
that complements the MSNBC Cable Network, providing in-depth reporting and
information on a wide range of news topics, from local to national to
international news.

  MSN Commerce. The MSN Commerce business sells platforms that power the MSN
vertical services. Microsoft Passport is a platform technology that makes it
safer and easier for consumers to access information and buy products and
services online. Microsoft Passport allows consumers to create a single sign-
in, registration, and electronic wallet that can be shared between all of the
sites that support Microsoft Passport. MSN LinkExchange, which the Company
acquired in November 1998, provides services to small businesses and Web site
owners to increase their online traffic and sales with free advertising banner
ads on their site in exchange for placing ads on other network sites.
TransPoint is an end-to-end system for Internet bill delivery and payment.
TransPoint's service, using existing payment systems, allows consumers to
access and pay their bills through the branded home banking services of
participating financial institutions and other consumer service providers.

  Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements to
take advantage of creative talent and content from other organizations.
Microsoft owns 50 percent of DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C., a software company
that develops interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the
remaining 50 percent. Microsoft owns 50 percent of MSNBC Cable L.L.C., a 24-
hour cable news and information channel; and 50 percent of MSNBC Interactive
News L.L.C., an interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company
(NBC) owns the remaining 50 percent of these two joint ventures. Microsoft is
an investor in Transpoint L.L.C., a joint venture between Microsoft, First Data
Corporation, and Citibank.


                                       5
<PAGE>

 Home and Retail

  The Home and Retail Division develops products that are designed to meet the
needs of consumers in the home environment, most of which are licensed and
sold to and through retail channels to consumers. Major product categories
include learning, productivity, personal finance, entertainment, and hardware
peripherals.

  Learning. Learning titles include Microsoft Encarta(R) multimedia
encyclopedia and Microsoft Bookshelf(R) CD-ROM reference library. The Encarta
family of products includes a multimedia encyclopedia database with
interactive information, an interactive world atlas with three-dimensional
maps, a world English dictionary, and an online version with monthly updates.
Microsoft Bookshelf is a multimedia reference library that integrates a
dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and
two books of quotations. Titles for children include My Personal Tutor, a
comprehensive, grade-based learning suite with TutorAssist(TM) learning
technology that identifies a child's specific learning needs and offers
instruction, and a series of products based on the popular children's book and
television series, Scholastic's The Magic School Bus(TM).

  Productivity and Finance. Microsoft's productivity offerings include
Microsoft Works, an integrated software program that contains basic word-
processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy
exchange of information from one tool to another. Microsoft Money is a
financial organization product that allows users to computerize their finances
and provides online home-banking services with numerous different banks in the
United States. The Works Suite provides a comprehensive collection of
software, including Microsoft Works, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Money,
Microsoft Encarta encyclopedia, Microsoft Graphics Studio Greetings, and
Microsoft Expedia Streets.

  Entertainment. The Company offers a line of entertainment products.
Microsoft Flight Simulator is a popular aircraft flight simulation product.
Other games include Age of Empires(R), Monster Truck Madness(R), racing
simulation, Microsoft Baseball, Microsoft Golf, and other sports and action
titles. The Microsoft Internet Gaming Zone is a gaming community on the
Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions of Microsoft's popular CD-
ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games.

  Hardware Peripherals. The Company develops and markets several PC input
devices including the Microsoft Mouse, a hand-held pointing device that
facilitates using the PC. The Microsoft IntelliMouse(R) pointing device is an
ergonomically designed mouse with a center-positioned wheel that provides
scrolling and data zooming. The Company also markets several types of
keyboards including the Microsoft Natural(R) keyboard, an ergonomically
designed keyboard. Microsoft sells various Microsoft SideWinder(R) game
controllers and force feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology
to use with PC games. ActiMates(TM) Interactive Barney(TM), Authur(R),
D.W.(TM), and Teletubbies(TM) are two-way interactive, talking and moving,
wireless plush character peripherals for young children that operate via
programming from CD-ROM (PC mode), a VHC (TV mode), and an on-board ROM chip
(stand-alone mode).

 Microsoft Press

  Microsoft Press offers comprehensive learning and training resources to help
new users, power users, and professionals get the most from Microsoft
technology through books, CDs, self-paced training kits, and videos that are
created to accommodate different learning styles and preferences. Microsoft
Press(R) books are authored by professional and technical writers, both by
Microsoft employees and independent authors.

  Microsoft Press contracts with an independent commercial printer for the
printing of its books. Publisher's Resources, Inc. acts as the Company's main
fulfillment house in the United States, maintaining the majority of the
inventory of Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed by independent sales
representatives and by Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally,
Microsoft Press has numerous agreements with publishers for the worldwide
distribution of its books. Microsoft Press has granted a publisher in England
the right to distribute English language versions of its books in all
countries except the United States, Canada, Latin America, and certain Asian
countries. In most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with a
book's manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the
printing, marketing, and distribution of the translated version.

                                       6
<PAGE>

Customer Sales Groups

  The Company has several customer sales groups that work with their customers
and partners to provide sales and marketing activities.

  The enterprise sales group has responsibility for sales and marketing
activities that target organizational customer segments by working directly
with these organizations to create and support enterprise-wide,
mission-critical solutions for business computing needs. The group is divided
into the following customer selling teams: depth and breadth enterprise sales,
small and medium enterprise sales, and education sales. The enterprise sales
group also provides seminars and forums to familiarize enterprises with
technology issues and solutions.

  The depth and breadth enterprise sales group creates the depth and breadth
licensing programs, drives systemic improvements for enterprise customers, and
manages key enterprise partners, including USWeb, EDS, AT&T, Computer Sciences
Corporation, and others. The small and medium enterprise customer group has
responsibility for activities that target groups of users in small and medium
organizations. The group works with channel partners such as distributors,
aggregators, value-added resellers, and Solution Providers to provide complete
business solutions. The group's sales and marketing activities include managing
technical training programs for Solution Providers (described below) and
channel resellers and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales
training for channel partners.

  The small and medium enterprise customer group also runs the Microsoft
Certified Professional program, which ensures the quality of Microsoft training
for individuals and corporations. The education customer group works with key
education institutions and other industry partners to provide programs and
technology tools that help them expand and enhance learning opportunities for
students. The education customer group has four primary areas, including higher
education, K-12, non-profit organizations, and management of the education
channel and resellers.

  The business solutions customer group targets key line of business partners,
including corporate developers and independent software vendors (ISVs) who
build business applications with a development platform based on Microsoft
Windows and BackOffice architecture. The group's sales and marketing activities
include providing industry-specific technical training, seminars, and events
for ISVs. The business solutions customer group also focuses on vertical and
horizontal industries and their associated software applications. A key focus
of the group is Microsoft Developer products, including Developer Tools,
Microsoft SQL Server, and Microsoft Windows DNA Architecture.

  The network solutions customer group is responsible for introducing the
Company's products and technologies to public infrastructure owners and
Internet Content Providers (ICPs). The customer group also focuses on embedded
and dedicated systems. Infrastructure owners include network operators
(telephone companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, etc.) who
build, own, and operate the public networks.

  The consumer customer group has responsibility for activities that target end
users that make individual buying decisions for home PCs. Most sales and
marketing activities aimed at end-user customers are performed by this group,
including developing and administering reseller relationships; reseller sales
terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end-user marketing
programs; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The customer
group's sub-segments include direct marketing resellers and retailers.

Product Development

  The software industry is characterized by extremely rapid technological
change, which requires constant attention to computing technology trends,
shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace of change is
accelerating, as the computing needs of our customers move beyond the PC toward
intelligent devices and appliances.


                                       7
<PAGE>

  Most of the Company's software products are developed internally. The Company
also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees
third-party development and localization of certain products. Internal
development enables Microsoft to maintain closer technical control over the
products and gives the Company the freedom to designate which modifications and
enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. The
Company has created a substantial body of proprietary development tools and has
evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products.
These tools and methodologies are also designed to simplify a product's
portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, or computing
devices. Product documentation is generally created internally.

  The Company believes that a crucial factor in the success of a new product is
getting it to market quickly to respond to new user needs or advances in
intelligent devices, PCs, servers, and the Internet, without compromising
product quality. The Company strives to become informed at the earliest
possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may
affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, Microsoft
provides to software vendors a range of development, training, testing
resources, and guidelines for developing applications to software vendors.

  To best serve the needs of users around the world, Microsoft "localizes" many
of its products to reflect local languages and conventions and to improve the
quality and usability of the product in international markets. Localizing of a
product might require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and
translating text. In Japanese versions, for example, all user messages and
documentation are in Japanese with monetary references in the Japanese yen.
Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than 30 languages.

  During fiscal years 1997, 1998, and 1999, the Company spent $1.86 billion,
$2.46 billion, and $2.81 billion, respectively, on product research and
development activities. Those amounts represented 15.6%, 17.0%, and 15.0%,
respectively, of revenue in each of those years, excluding funding of joint
venture activity. The Company is committed to continue high expenditures for
research and product development.

Manufacturing

  Microsoft contracts out most of its manufacturing activity to third parties.
Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and
hardware peripherals. There are other custom manufacturers Microsoft could use
in the event outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current vendors.
  The Company's remaining manufacturing facilities are located in Puerto Rico
and Ireland. The Irish facility and the Puerto Rico facilities manufacture CD-
ROMs. Microsoft outsources its manufacturing of packaged products. Quality
control tests are performed on purchased parts, CD-ROMs, and other products.
The chief materials and components used in Microsoft products include CD-ROMs,
books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company is often able to acquire
component parts and materials on a volume discount basis. The Company has
multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components.
  The Company's sales mix has shifted to OEM and organizational licenses from
packaged products. Also, online distribution of software is increasing.

Operations

  Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistics services.
The Company has regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and the
Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations activities,
including information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related
supporting functions by geographical regions. The regional center in Dublin,
Ireland supports the European, African, and Middle East regions, the center in
Singapore supports the Asia Pacific region, and the center in the Greater
Seattle area supports North and South America. The Company established
Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI) in Reno, Nevada, a wholly owned
subsidiary, which manages the Company's OEM and certain organizational
licensing operations.

                                       8
<PAGE>

Marketing and Distribution

  The Company's sales and marketing group seeks to build long-term
relationships with customers of Microsoft products. The OEM sales group
includes the sales force that works with original equipment manufacturers that
preinstall Microsoft software on their PCs. In addition to the OEM channel,
Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the
South Pacific and Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and Asia.

 Finished Goods Channels

  Distributors and Resellers. The Company licenses and sells its products in
the finished goods channels primarily to and through independent non-exclusive
distributors and resellers. Distributors include Inacom, Ingram Micro,
SoftBank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum,
Corporate Software & Technology, CompUSA, Software House International,
Softmart, ASAP Software Express, and Best Buy. Microsoft has a network of field
sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from
distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support.

  Enterprise Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software
acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized to meet
the needs of large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include
technology specialists and influential end users in large enterprises.
Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account
resellers. The Microsoft Open program is a licensing program that is targeted
for small and medium size organizations. It is available through the reseller
channel and offers discounts based on initial purchase volumes. The Microsoft
Enterprise Agreement program is a licensing program designed to provide a
flexible licensing and service solution tailored to customers making a long-
term licensing commitment. The agreements are designed to increase customer
satisfaction by simplifying license administration, payment terms, and the
contract process.

  Solution Providers. Microsoft's Solution Providers program is a comprehensive
support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and
system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for
business computing solutions. The program supports system integrators, value-
added resellers (VARs), consultants, custom application developers, solution
developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content
providers, and site builders (companies that build Web sites for other
companies), as well as technical support and training organizations. Under this
business collaboration strategy, the Company provides sales and product
information, development services, early access to Microsoft products, and
customer support tools, including priority telephone support, education, and
business development support. To ensure high-quality technical services for the
Company's products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required to have
Microsoft-certified professionals on staff. Microsoft Direct Access is a
comprehensive and open program that allows independent technology providers to
actively work with Microsoft through the Microsoft Direct Access program
online, quarterly briefings, training, and action packs.

  Certified Professionals. Microsoft receives certification fees through the
Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) program, a program that provides
credentials for those who have demonstrated in-depth knowledge of at least one
Microsoft product. To become an MCP, a candidate must pass a certification exam
that provides a valid and reliable measure of technical proficiency and
expertise. MCP exams are developed with the input of professionals in the
industry and reflect how Microsoft products are used in organizations
throughout the world. The exams are administered by independent organizations
at more than 1,400 testing centers around the world. MCPs receive access to
technical and product information through an MCP Web site, MSDN Online
Certified Membership, and invitations to conferences, technical training
sessions, and special events. Candidates may pass additional Microsoft
certification exams to further qualify their skills with Microsoft BackOffice
products, development tools, and desktop applications.

  Consulting Services. Microsoft Consulting Services assists customers in
deploying and using the Company's computer operating systems, applications, and
communications products. The group works with

                                       9
<PAGE>

Solution Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for
large corporate accounts. Microsoft Consulting Services also works with
technology solutions providers to enable them to offer a wide range of
Microsoft product-related services backed by high levels of technical skill
and knowledge.

  International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and/or
support subsidiaries in more than 70 countries. Product is generally delivered
by the Company's owned or outsourced manufacturing operations, which are
located in the geographical region in which the product was sold. By
organizing geographically, the Company is able to provide service to
international channel customers and access to Microsoft professionals located
in the same region to serve their specific needs. Subsidiaries have the
responsibility for selling products to customers, managing licensing programs,
and providing support to all types of customers based in international
countries. Notes to Financial Statements--(see Item 8) describe foreign
operations and export sales.

  The Company's international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are
subject to certain risks common to foreign operations in general, such as
governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate
fluctuations. Microsoft hedges a portion of its foreign exchange risk.

 Product Support

  The Company provides product support coverage options aligned to the
customer segments, partner segments, and communities. Coverage options range
from standard no-charge toll telephone support to fee-based offerings
providing unlimited 800 number telephone and electronic technical support for
all Microsoft products 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. Support offerings
include the Alliance program, tailored for large enterprises running mission-
critical applications on Microsoft platforms; the Premier program for
enterprises and technical account managers needing regular managed support;
the Professional program for small organizations, developers, OEMs, and
Microsoft Certified Solution Providers ranging from small organizations to
large-account resellers (LARs); and the Personal program for home users, which
provides free online self-help resources and phone support. Users have access
to troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft's KnowledgeBase, an online library
of thousands of technical articles that is updated regularly with useful
information regarding Microsoft products. Additionally, several support
offerings include Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network
information subscription services.

  Support personnel are located in various sites in the United States and
around the world. Certain support is also supplied by qualified third-party
support organizations.

  As a supplement or alternative to direct support, the Company enhances the
third-party support channel by providing Microsoft Certified Solution
Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Certified
Solution Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced
product education and certification on Microsoft products; and Authorized
Support Centers, which provide a wide spectrum of multinational support,
multi-vendor support, and integration services.

 OEM Channel

  Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily to OEMs under agreements
that grant the OEMs the right to distribute copies of the Company's products
with their computing devices, principally PCs. The Company also markets and
licenses certain desktop applications, hardware peripherals, and consumer
software programs to OEMs under similar arrangements. In almost all cases, the
products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM
agreements covering one or more of its products with virtually all of the
major PC OEMs, including, Acer, Actebis, Compaq, Dell, Fujitsu/ICL, Gateway
2000, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Micron, NEC, Packard Bell NEC, Samsung, Siemens,
Toshiba, and Vobis. A substantial amount of OEM business is also conducted
with system builders, which are low-volume customized PC vendors.


                                      10
<PAGE>

 Advertising

  The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms.
Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials
are targeted to various end-user segments. The Company uses broad consumer
media (television, radio, the Internet, and business publications) and trade
publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs
are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures.

Customers

  The Company's customers include consumers, small and medium-sized
organizations, enterprises, educational institutions, ISPs, application
developers, and OEMs. Most consumers of Microsoft products are individuals in
businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and at home. The
consumers and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through
resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their
computing hardware. Notes to Financial Statements (see Item 8) quantify
customers that represent more than 10% of the Company's revenue. The Company's
practice is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from
its customers and, consequently, backlog is not significant.

Competition

  The software business is intensely competitive and subject to extremely
rapid technological change. The Company is faced with the possibility of
paradigm shifts from PC-based applications to server-based applications or
Web-based application hosting services, from proprietary software to open
source software, and from PCs to Internet-based devices. A number of
Microsoft's most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems,
Oracle, and AOL (Netscape), are collaborating with one another on various
initiatives directed at competing with Microsoft. These initiatives relate in
part to efforts to move software from individual PCs to centrally managed
servers, which would present significant challenges to the Company's
historical business model. Collaborative efforts also include the development
of new platform technologies that are intended to replicate much of the value
of Microsoft Windows operating systems. New computing form factors, including
non-PC information devices, are gaining popularity and competing with PCs
running Microsoft's software products.

  Microsoft faces formidable competition in these new areas and in all areas
of its current business activity, including competition from many companies
much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace of technological change,
particularly in the area of Internet platforms and services, continually
creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can
quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces
relentless competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and
distribute Microsoft's copyrighted software products, depriving the Company of
large amounts of revenue on an annual basis.

  Operating Systems. Microsoft's operating system products face substantial
competition from a wide variety of companies. Competitors such as IBM, Apple
Computer, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, and others are vertically
integrated in both software development and hardware manufacturing and have
developed operating systems that they preinstall on computers of their own
manufacture. Many of these operating system software products are also
licensed to third-party OEMs for preinstallation on their computers.
Microsoft's operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating
systems from a wide range of companies, including IBM, AT&T, Hewlett-Packard,
Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants of UNIX run
on a wide variety of computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance
as desktop operating systems. With an increased attention toward open-source
software, the Linux operating system has gained increasing acceptance. Several
computer manufacturers preinstall Linux on PCs and many leading software
developers have written applications that run on Linux. As PC technology
increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications, Microsoft's
operating system products face increased competition from network server
operating systems such as Novell's NetWare, Banyan's Vines, the many variants
of UNIX, IBM's OS/2, "middleware" products such as IBM's Lotus Notes, and
intranet servers from Apache, AOL (Netscape),

                                      11
<PAGE>

IBM, Sun Microsystems, and others. Microsoft Windows operating systems are
also threatened by alternative platforms such as those based on Internet
browsing software and Java technology promoted by AOL and Sun Microsystems.

  Business Systems. The Company competes in the business of providing
enterprise-wide computing solutions with several competitors who enjoy a
larger share of sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer
operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including
IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are
typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantial support
services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for
PC-based distributed client/server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer
Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who
offer connectivity servers. As mentioned above, there are numerous companies
and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software, that
compete against the Company's business systems. Additionally, IBM has a large
installed base of Lotus Notes and cc:Mail, both of which compete with the
Company's collaboration and e-mail products.

  Desktop Applications. The Company's competitors include many software
application vendors, such as IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.), Sun
Microsystems, Corel, Qualcomm, and local application developers in Europe and
Asia. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and
word-processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing
strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain of their application
software products on various models of their PCs, competing directly with
Microsoft's desktop application software. Additionally, Web-based application
hosting services provide an alternative to PC-based applications such as
Microsoft Office.

  Developer Tools. The Company's developer products compete against offerings
from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and
other companies.

  Consumer Platforms. A wide variety of companies develop operating systems
for information appliances, including Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software,
Sun Microsystems, Microworkz, Be, Inc., WindRiver, Symbian and others. The
Company's WebTV offerings and other multimedia consumer products face
competitors such as Sun Microsystems, Oracle, Liberate Technologies,
NetChannel, and others. An enormous range of companies, including media
conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware
manufacturers, and software developers, are competing to make interactive
services widely available to the home.

  E-Commerce. Microsoft competes with many companies in the e-commerce
business and its major components, including business-to-consumer, business-
to-business, procurement, and supply chain integration. In the development and
marketing of Internet and intranet solutions, major commerce software
competitors provide many different ranges of products and solutions that
compete with Microsoft, including IBM, Oracle, AOL (Netscape), Sun
Microsystems, Broadvision, and many others.

  Online Services. Microsoft's online services network, MSN, faces formidable
competition from AOL (including its CompuServe unit), AT&T, and other
traditional online services as well as a vast array of Web sites and portals
that offer content of all types and email, calendaring, chat, and search and
shopping services, among other things. In addition, the ease of entry into
Internet services has allowed numerous Web-based service companies to build
significant businesses in areas such as e-mail, electronic commerce, Web
search engines, directories, and information of numerous types. Competitors
include AOL, Yahoo, Excite, Lycos, Infoseek, AltaVista, and many others.

  News Services. The Company's MSNBC joint ventures face formidable
competition from other 24-hour cable and Internet news organizations such as
CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with
traditional news media such as newspapers, magazines, and broadcast TV.

  Home and Retail. The Company's Home and Retail division faces many smaller
but focused and branded competitors, particularly in the areas of hardware,
learning, and entertainment. Consolidation in this area of software
development has made certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include
Intuit, Electronic Arts,

                                      12
<PAGE>

Mattel (The Learning Company), Hasbro, Logitech, Voyager, Cendant, and Dorling
Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such as Disney and
Lucas Arts.

  Additionally, PC-based games are increasingly competing head-to-head against
games created for proprietary systems such as Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and
Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers,
since computers are typically sold with a keyboard and mouse, and other
manufacturers of these devices.

  The Company's competitive position may be adversely affected by one or more
of these factors in the future, particularly in view of the fast pace of
technological change in the computing industry.

Employees

  As of June 30, 1999, the Company employed 31,396 people on a full-time basis,
21,802 in the United States and 9,594 internationally. Of the total, 12,090
were in product research and development, 15,186 in sales, marketing, and
support, 1,270 in manufacturing and distribution, and 2,850 in finance and
administration. Microsoft's success is highly dependent on its ability to
attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees is intense in
the software industry. To date, the Company believes it has been successful in
its efforts to recruit qualified employees, but there is no assurance that it
will continue to be as successful in the future. None of the Company's
employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes
relations with its employees are excellent.

Item 2. Properties

  The Company's corporate offices consist of approximately 6.7 million square
feet of office building space located in King County, Washington. There are two
sites that total approximately 300 acres of land. The Company recently
completed the construction of two office buildings comprising approximately
420,000 square feet of space and is constructing a building with approximately
145,000 square feet of space. This site will be occupied in the winter of 2000.
The Company owns 4.7 million square feet of its corporate campus. The Company
leases many buildings in the Puget Sound Region. The Company recently leased
four buildings with approximately 420,000 square feet of space, which will be
occupied in the fall of 1999.

  The Company leases many sites domestically. The Company entered into a build-
to-suit lease agreement in the San Francisco, California Bay Area. This campus,
when complete, will be approximately 517,000 square feet. It is scheduled to
open in the fall of 1999.

  The Company's European operations center and localization division consist of
a 345,000 square-foot campus situated on 17 acres in Dublin, Ireland. The
Ireland facilities are partially owned by the Company. In the United Kingdom,
the Company executed a sale/leaseback of three buildings that total 230,000
square feet. In Les Ulis, France, the Company executed a sale/leaseback on a
199,000 square-foot office building. The Company leases a 45,000 square-foot
disk duplication facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Company leases a 36,000
square-foot facility in Singapore for its Asia Pacific operations center.

  In addition, the Company leases many other sites around the world.

  The Company's facilities are fully used for current operations of all
segments and suitable additional space is available to accommodate expansion
needs.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

  The information set forth in Notes to Financial Statements--Contingencies on
page 40-41 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.

                                       13
<PAGE>

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1999.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

  The executive officers of Microsoft as of September 10, 1999 were as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   Name                      Age   Position with the Company
   ----                      ---   -------------------------
   <C>                       <S>   <C>
   William H. Gates......... 43    Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer
   Steven A. Ballmer........ 43    President
   Robert J. Herbold........ 57    Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer
   Richard Belluzzo......... 45    Group Vice President, Consumer and Commerce
   Frank M. (Pete) Higgins.. 41    Group Vice President
   Paul A. Maritz........... 44    Group Vice President, Developer
   Jeffrey S. Raikes........ 41    Group Vice President, Sales and Support
   James E. Allchin......... 47    Senior Vice President, Platforms
   Orlando Ayala Lozano..... 43    Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas
   Bradley M. Chase......... 39    Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce
   John S. DeVaan........... 38    Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce
   Joachim Kempin........... 57    Senior Vice President, OEM Sales
   Michel Lacombe........... 48    Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East,
                                   and Africa
   Gregory B. Maffei........ 39    Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer
   Robert L. Muglia......... 39    Senior Vice President, Business Productivity
   Craig Mundie............. 50    Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy
   William H. Neukom........ 57    Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary
   Bernard P. Vergnes....... 54    Senior Vice President; Chairman, Microsoft Europe, Middle East,
                                   and Africa
</TABLE>

  Mr. Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 and has been its Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was
incorporated in 1981.

  Mr. Ballmer was named President in July 1998 and had been Executive Vice
President, Sales and Support since February 1992. He had been Senior Vice
President, Systems Software since 1989. From 1984 until 1989, Mr. Ballmer
served as Vice President, Systems Software. He joined Microsoft in 1980.

  Mr. Herbold joined Microsoft as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer in November 1994. Mr. Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble
Company since 1968, with experience in information services, advertising and
market research. Most recently, he was P&G's Senior Vice President,
Information Services and Advertising.

  Mr. Belluzzo joined Microsoft as Group Vice President, Consumer and Commence
in September 1999. Mr. Belluzzo had been Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer, Silicon Graphics, Inc. since January 1998. Prior to his
employment at Silicon Graphics, Inc., Belluzzo was employed by the
Hewlett-Packard Company for twenty-two years, serving since 1995 as Executive
Vice President and General Manager of the computer organization. From 1993 to
1995, Mr. Belluzzo was General Manager of the Computer Products Organization.

  Mr. Higgins is on leave from Microsoft. Mr. Higgins was named Group Vice
President, Interactive Media Group in October 1996. He was named Group Vice
President, Applications and Content in May 1995 and Senior Vice President,
Desktop Applications Division in March 1993. He had been Vice President,
Desktop Applications Division since 1992. Mr. Higgins joined Microsoft in
1983.

                                      14
<PAGE>

  Mr. Maritz was named Group Vice President, Developer in March 1999. He had
been Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications since October 1996 and
before holding that position was Group Vice President, Platforms since May
1995. Mr. Maritz had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology
Strategy since November 1994 and had been Senior Vice President, Systems
Division since February 1992. He had been Vice President, Advanced Operating
Systems since 1989. Mr. Maritz joined Microsoft in 1986.

  Mr. Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support in July 1998.
He had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July 1996. He was
named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America in January 1992 and had
been Vice President, Office Systems since 1990. Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in
1981.

  Mr. Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Platforms in March 1999. He had
been Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February 1996.
He was previously Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division since
November 1994 and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since
July 1991. Mr. Allchin joined Microsoft in 1991.

  Mr. Ayala was named Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas in
February 1998. He had been Vice President of the developing markets of Africa,
India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and
the South Pacific. He joined Microsoft in May 1991 as Senior Director of the
Latin America Region.

  Mr. Chase was named Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce in
September 1999. Mr. Chase had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce since
March 1999. He was Vice President, Developer Relations and Windows Marketing.
Mr. Chase joined Microsoft in July 1987.

  Mr. DeVaan was named Senior Vice President, Consumer and Commerce in
September 1999. Mr. DeVaan had been Vice President, Consumer and Commerce
since March 1999. He had been Vice President, Desktop Applications since 1995.
Mr. DeVaan joined Microsoft in 1985.

  Mr. Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales in August 1993. He had
been Vice President, OEM Sales since 1987. Mr. Kempin joined Microsoft in
1983.

  Mr. Lacombe is President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa. He was
named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa in February 1998.
He had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft
since July 1997. He had been Vice President, Europe since September 1995 and
Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April 1994. Mr. Lacombe
had been Regional Director of Southern Europe from May 1991. Mr. Lacombe
joined Microsoft in 1983.

  Mr. Maffei was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration in
March 1999. He was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
in July 1997. Mr. Maffei was named Vice President, Corporate Development in
July 1996 and Treasurer in April 1994. He joined Microsoft in 1993 as
Director, Business Development and Investments.

  Mr. Muglia is Senior Vice President, Business Productivity. He was named
Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools in February 1998. He had been
Vice President, Server Applications since 1997 and was Vice President,
Developer Tools since 1995. He joined Microsoft in January 1988.

  Mr. Mundie is Senior Vice President, Consumer Strategy. He was named Senior
Vice President, Consumer Platforms in February 1996. He was named Senior Vice
President, Consumer Systems in May 1995 and had been Vice President, Advanced
Consumer Technology since July 1993. He joined Microsoft as General Manager,
Advanced Consumer Technology in December 1992.

  Mr. Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs in
February 1994. He joined Microsoft in 1985 as Vice President, Law and
Corporate Affairs.

  Mr. Vergnes is a Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe,
Middle East, and Africa. He was named President, Microsoft Europe in April
1992. He had been Vice President, Europe since 1989. Mr. Vergnes joined
Microsoft in 1983.

                                      15
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

  The information set forth on page 43 of the 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.1.

  Reference is also made to the information on sales of put warrants described
in the notes to financial statements incorporated herein by reference and
filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4. All such transactions are exempt from
registration under Section 4 (2) of the Securities Act of 1933. Each
transaction was privately negotiated and each offeree and purchaser was an
accredited investor/qualified institutional buyer. No public offering or
public solicitation was used by the registrant in the placement of these
securities.

  During the quarter, the Company issued an aggregate of 507,140 of its common
shares pursuant to the following transactions: (i) the acquisition by the
Company of certain assets of Bruce Carver and Associates, Inc. and Chris J.
Jones and Associates Inc., owned by two shareholders, (ii) the merger in
exchange for the outstanding capital shares of Jump Networks, Inc., owned by
six shareholders, and (iii) the merger in exchange for the outstanding capital
shares of OmniBrowse, Inc., owned by five shareholders. All of the Microsoft
common shares issued in these transactions were issued pursuant to an
exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "1933 Act"), under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. These sales were
made without general solicitation or advertising. The Company has filed a
Registration Statement on form S-3 covering the resale of such securities. All
net proceeds from the sale of such securities will go to the selling
shareholders who offered and sell their shares. The Company has not received
and will not receive any proceeds from the sale of these common shares other
than the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

  The information set forth on page 2 of the 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.2.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
       Financial Condition

  The information set forth on page 18-26 of the 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.3.

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

  The information set forth on page 25 of the 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as
Exhibit 13.3.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

  The following financial statements and supplementary data for the Company
and independent auditors' report set forth on pages 17 and 27-44 of the 1999
Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference and is filed
herewith as Exhibit 13.4.

  .  Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1999

  .  Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1999

  .  Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1998 and 1999

  .  Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1999

  .  Notes to Financial Statements

  .  Independent Auditors' Report

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
       Financial Disclosures

  None.

                                      16
<PAGE>

                                   PART III

Item 10.  Directors of the Registrant

  Information with respect to Directors may be found under the caption
"Election of Directors and Management Information" on pages 1 and 2 of the
Company's Proxy Statement dated September 10, 1999, for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held November 10, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement"). Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

  The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions
"Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" on pages 4 through 6
and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" on page 2 is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

  The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding
Beneficial Ownership of Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" on
page 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

  The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions" on page 7 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
by reference. The information in Notes to Financial Statements--Operational
Transactions on page 39 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference and is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.4.

                                      17
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

  (a) Financial Statements and Schedules

    The financial statements as set forth under Item 8 of this report on Form
  10-K are incorporated herein by reference.

    Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not
  required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.

  (b) Reports on Form 8-K

    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of fiscal 1999.

  (c) Exhibit Listing

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Exhibit
     Number  Description
     ------- -----------
     <C>     <S>
       3.1    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Microsoft Corporation
       3.2    Bylaws of Microsoft Corporation
      10.1    Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan (1)
      10.2    Microsoft Corporation 1981 Stock Option Plan (2)
      10.3    Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors (3)
      10.4    Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and
              Advisors (3)
      10.5    Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1)
      10.6    Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan (3)
      10.7    Trust Agreement dated June 1, 1993 between Microsoft Corporation
              and First Interstate Bank of Washington (4)
      10.8    Form of Indemnification Agreement (4)
      11.     Computation of Earnings Per Share (5)
      13.1    Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated by Reference to
              Page 43 of 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders ("1999 Annual
              Report")
      13.2    Selected Financial Data Incorporated by Reference to Page 2 of
              1999 Annual Report
      13.3    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
              and Financial Condition Incorporated by Reference to Pages 18-26
              of 1999 Annual Report
      13.4    Financial Statements Incorporated by Reference to Pages 17 and
              27-44 of 1999 Annual Report
      21.     Subsidiaries of Registrant
      23.     Independent Auditors' Consent
      27.     Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
    Year Ended June 30, 1997.
(2) Incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 33-37623 on Form S-8.
(3) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
    Year Ended June 30, 1994.
(4) Incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K For The Fiscal
    Year Ended June 30, 1993.
(5) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13.4 filed herein.

                                      18
<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
Redmond, State of Washington, on September 28, 1999.

                                          MICROSOFT CORPORATION

                                                 /s/ Gregory B. Maffei
                                          By __________________________________
                                                     Gregory B. Maffei
                                            Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                              Administration; Chief Financial
                                                          Officer

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant
and in the capacities indicated on September 28, 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                 Signature                                        Title
                 ---------                                        -----


<S>                                         <C>
         /s/  William H. Gates              Chairman of the Board of Directors
___________________________________________   and Chief Executive Officer
             William H. Gates


           /s/ Paul G. Allen                Director
___________________________________________
               Paul G. Allen


                                            Director
___________________________________________
               Jill E. Barad


        /s/ Richard A. Hackborn             Director
___________________________________________
            Richard A. Hackborn


         /s/ David F. Marquardt             Director
___________________________________________
            David F. Marquardt


          /s/ Wm. G. Reed, Jr.              Director
___________________________________________
             Wm. G. Reed, Jr.


           /s/ Jon A. Shirley               Director
___________________________________________
              Jon A. Shirley


         /s/ Gregory B. Maffei              Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration;
___________________________________________              Chief Financial Officer
             Gregory B. Maffei                 (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
</TABLE>


                                      19
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit 3.1


                      RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION



     Pursuant to RCW 23B.10.070, the following Restated Articles of
Incorporation are hereby submitted for filing:

                                   ARTICLE I

                                     NAME

             The name of the corporation is Microsoft Corporation.

                                  ARTICLE II

                          REGISTERED OFFICE AND AGENT

     The address of the registered office of the "Corporation" is 5000 Columbia
Center, 701 Fifth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104-7078, and the name of the
registered agent at such address is PTSGE Corp.


                                  ARTICLE III

                                    PURPOSE

     The Corporation is organized for the purposes of transacting any and all
lawful business for which a corporation may be incorporated under the Washington
Business Corporation Act, Title 23B of the Revised Code of Washington, now or
hereafter in force (the "Act").


                                  ARTICLE IV

                                CAPITAL SHARES

     4.1  Authorized Shares.  The total number of shares of stock which the
          -----------------
Corporation shall have authority to issue is 12,100,000,000 shares, which shall
consist of 12,000,000,000 shares of common stock, $.0000125 par value per share
("Common Shares") and 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par value per
share ("Preferred Shares").  Except as otherwise provided in accordance with
these Articles of Incorporation, the Common Shares shall have the unlimited
voting rights, with each share being entitled to one vote, and the rights to
receive the net assets of the Corporation upon dissolution, with each share
participating on a pro rata basis.

<PAGE>

     4.2  Issuance of Preferred Shares.  The Board of Directors is hereby
          ----------------------------
authorized from time to time, without shareholder action, to provide for the
issuance of Preferred Shares in one or more series not exceeding in the
aggregate the number of Preferred Shares authorized by these Articles of
Incorporation, as amended from time to time; and to determine with respect to
each such series the voting powers, if any (which voting powers, if granted, may
be full or limited), designations, preferences, and relative, participating,
option, or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations, or
restrictions relating thereto, including without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the voting rights relating to Preferred Shares of any series (which
may be one or more votes per share or a fraction of a vote per share, which may
vary over time, and which may be applicable generally or only upon the happening
and continuance of stated events or conditions), the rate of dividend to which
holders of Preferred Shares of any series may be entitled (which may be
cumulative or noncumulative), the rights of holders of Preferred Shares of any
series in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the affairs of
the Corporation, the rights, if any, of holders of Preferred Shares of any
series to convert or exchange such Preferred Shares of such series for shares of
any other class or series of capital stock or for any other securities,
property, or assets of the Corporation or any subsidiary (including the
determination of the price or prices or the rate or rates applicable to such
rights to convert or exchange and the adjustment thereof, the time or times
during which the right to convert or exchange shall be applicable, and the time
or times during which a particular price or rate shall be applicable), whether
or not the shares of that series shall be redeemable, and if so, the terms and
conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which
they shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of
redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different
redemption dates, and whether any shares of that series shall be redeemed
pursuant to a retirement or sinking fund or otherwise and the terms and
conditions of such obligation.

     4.3  Filings and Effectiveness.  Before the Corporation shall issue any
          -------------------------
Preferred Shares of any series, Articles of Amendment or Restated Articles of
Incorporation, fixing the voting powers, designations, preferences, the
relative, participating, option, or other rights, if any, and the
qualifications, limitations, and restrictions, if any, relating to the Preferred
Shares of such series, and the number of Preferred Shares of such series
authorized by the Board of Directors to be issued shall be filed with the
secretary of state in accordance with the Washington Business Corporation Act
("WBCA") and shall become effective without any shareholder action. The Board of
Directors is further authorized to increase or decrease (but not below the
number of such shares of such series then outstanding) the number of shares of
any series subsequent to the issuance of shares of that series.

     4.4  Terms of 2 3/4% Convertible Exchangeable Principal-Protected Preferred
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares.
- ------

          4.4.1  Designation and Amount. The shares of such series shall be
                 ----------------------
designated "2 3/4% Convertible Exchangeable Principal-Protected Preferred
Shares, Series A," and the number of shares constituting such series shall
initially be a maximum of 12,600,000. The shares of such series shall have a
stated par value of $.01 per share. Such series is herein sometimes referred to
as the "Series A Preferred Shares. "

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

          4.4.2  Preferred Dividends.
                 -------------------

                 (a) The holders of Series A Preferred Shares shall be entitled
to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds of
the Corporation legally available therefor, cash dividends ("Preferred
Dividends") at the annual rate of $2.196 per share, payable quarterly in arrears
on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 in each year (each a
"Dividend Payment Date"), commencing March 15, 1997 (and, in the case of any
accrued but unpaid dividends, at such additional times and for such interim
periods, if any, as determined by the Corporation's Board of Directors). In the
event that any Dividend Payment Date shall fall on any day other than a Business
Day (as defined in paragraph (b) of Section 4.4.3), the Preferred Dividend due
on such Dividend Payment Date shall be paid on the Business Day immediately
following such Dividend Payment Date. Preferred Dividends shall begin to accrue
from the date of initial issuance of the Series A Preferred Shares. Preferred
Dividends will cease to accrue on Series A Preferred Shares on the Conversion
Date (as defined in paragraph (b) of Section 4.4.3) or on the date of their
earlier exchange for Convertible Notes (as defined in paragraph (a) of Section
4.4.5). Preferred Dividends shall accrue on a daily basis whether or not in any
such quarterly period there shall be funds of the Corporation legally available
therefor and whether or not such Preferred Dividends are declared, but Preferred
Dividends accrued for any period less than a full quarterly period between
Dividend Payment Dates (or, in the case of the first Preferred Dividend, from
the date of initial issuance of the Series A Preferred Shares through the first
Dividend Payment Date) shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months. Accrued but unpaid Preferred Dividends shall
cumulate as of the Dividend Payment Date on which they first become payable, but
no interest shall accrue on accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends.
Preferred Dividends shall be payable to holders of record as they appear on the
stock transfer records of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be
not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days preceding the payment dates, as
shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.

                 (b) So long as any Series A Preferred Shares are outstanding,
the Corporation may not (i) declare or pay any dividends (other than dividends
payable in Common Shares or other shares of the Corporation ranking junior to
the Series A Preferred Shares) to holders of Common Shares or shares of the
Corporation of any other class ranking on a parity with or junior to the Series
A Preferred Shares, or (ii) make any distributions of assets (directly or
indirectly, by purchase, redemption or otherwise) to the holders of Common
Shares or shares of the Corporation of any other class ranking on a parity with
or junior to the Series A Preferred Shares, unless all accrued and unpaid
Preferred Dividends, including the full dividends for the then quarterly
dividend period, shall have been paid or declared and funds sufficient for
payment thereof set apart.

                 (c) No dividends may be paid upon or declared or set apart for
any Preferred Shares ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Shares for
any quarterly dividend period, unless at the same time a like proportionate
dividend for the same quarterly dividend period, ratably in proportion to the
respective annual dividend rates fixed therefor, shall be paid upon or declared
or set apart for the Series A Preferred Shares.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

          4.4.3  Conversion of Series A Preferred Shares.
                 ---------------------------------------

                 (a) Automatic Conversion on Conversion Date. On December 15,
                     ---------------------------------------
1999 (the "Conversion Date"), unless previously exchanged for Convertible Notes,
as described in Section 4.4.5 below, each outstanding Series A Preferred Share
shall automatically convert into that number of Common Shares of the Corporation
determined by multiplying each Series A Preferred Share by the Exchange Rate.
However, in lieu of delivering Common Shares on the Conversion Date, the
Corporation may, at its option, convert each Series A Preferred Share into an
amount of cash (a "Cash Settlement") determined by multiplying the Current
Market Price of the Common Shares by the Exchange Rate. In either event, each
holder of Series A Preferred Shares will receive in cash any unpaid dividends
which have accrued to the Conversion Date. The Exchange Rate is equal to (i) if
the Current Market Price of the Common Shares is greater than or equal to
$102.24 per share (the "Threshold Price"), a ratio equal to the Threshold Price
divided by the Current Market Price, (ii) if the Current Market Price is less
than the Threshold Price but greater than the Initial Price, a ratio of 1.0, and
(iii) if the Current Market Price is less than or equal to the Initial Price, a
ratio equal to the Initial Price divided by the Current Market Price, subject in
each case to adjustments in certain events.

                 (b) Definitions.   As used in this Article:
                     -----------

          "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on
           ------------
which banking institutions in the state of New York are authorized or obligated
by law or executive order to close.

          "Closing Price" of a Common Share on any date of determination means
           -------------
the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported
sale price) of such share as reported by The Nasdaq National Market on such
date, or, if it is not so reported, as reported in the composite transactions
for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Shares
are so listed, or, if it is not so listed on a United States national or
regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price of the Common Shares in
the over-the-counter market as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or
similar organization, or, if such bid price is not available, the market value
of a Common Share on such date as determined by a nationally recognized
independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the
Corporation.

          "Current Market Prices" except as used in Section 4.4.3(d)(ii) and
           ---------------------
(iii), means the average Closing Price per Common Share of the Corporation on
the 20 Trading Days beginning on the twenty-second Trading Day immediately prior
to, but not including, the Conversion Date and ending on the second Trading Day
immediately prior to, but not including, the Conversion Date.

          "Initial Price" means $79.875 per Common Share.
           -------------

          "Trading Day" means a day on which the Common Shares (i) are not
           -----------
suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or
association or over-the-counter market at the close of business and (ii) has
traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or
association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the
trading of such security.

                                      -4-
<PAGE>

          (c)  Notice of Election to Settle in Cash; No Fractional Shares.  The
               ----------------------------------------------------------
Corporation shall mail written notice of its election to settle the conversion
of the Series A Preferred Shares in cash to each holder of record of Series A
Preferred Shares not less than 30 Trading Days nor more than 45 Trading Days
prior to the Conversion Date. Upon surrender of certificates for Series A
Preferred Shares to be converted, as required herein (except in the case of a
Cash Settlement), the Corporation shall issue the number of full Common Shares
issuable upon conversion thereof. No fractional Common Shares will be issued
upon conversion, but in lieu thereof, in the sole discretion of the Board of
Directors, either such fractional interest shall be rounded up to the next whole
share or an amount will be paid in cash by the Corporation for such fractional
interest based upon the Current Market Price.

          (d)  Exchange Rate Adjustments.  The Exchange Rate shall be subject to
               -------------------------
adjustment from time to time as provided below in this paragraph (d). All
adjustments to the Exchange Rate shall be calculated to the nearest 1/10,000th
of a Common Share.

               (i)  If the Corporation shall either:

                    (1)  pay a dividend or make a distribution with respect to
                         Common Shares in Common Shares,

                    (2)  subdivide or split its outstanding Common Shares,

                    (3)  combine its outstanding Common Shares into a smaller
                         number of shares, or

                    (4)  issue by reclassification of its Common Shares any
                         capital shares of the Corporation,

then, in any such event, the Exchange Rate in effect immediately prior to the
record date for any such dividend or distribution or the effective date of any
such subdivision, split, combination or reclassification, as the case may be,
shall be adjusted so that the holder of a Series A Preferred Share shall be
entitled to receive on the conversion of such Series A Preferred Share, the
number of Common Shares of the Corporation which such holder would have owned or
been entitled to receive upon the happening of any of the events described above
had such Series A Preferred Share been converted at the Exchange Rate in effect
at the time of the record date for any such dividend or distribution or of the
effective date of any such subdivision, split, combination or reclassification,
as the case may be. Such adjustment shall become effective at the opening of
business on the Business Day next following the record date for such dividend or
distribution in the case of a dividend or distribution, and shall become
effective immediately after the effective date in the case of a subdivision,
split, combination, or reclassification; and any Common Shares issuable in
payment of a dividend shall be deemed to have been issued immediately prior to
the close of business on the record date for such dividend for purposes of
calculating the number of outstanding Common Shares under clauses (ii) and (iii)
below.

               (ii) If the Corporation shall, after the date hereof, issue
rights or warrants to all holders of its Common Shares entitling them (for a
period not exceeding 45 days from the

                                      -5-
<PAGE>

date of such issuance) to subscribe for or purchase Common Shares at a price per
share less than the Current Market Price of the Common Shares (determined
pursuant to paragraph (d)(v) of this Section 4.4.3) on the record date for the
determination of Shareholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, then
in each case the Exchange Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying the Exchange
Rate in effect on such record date by a fraction of which the numerator shall be
the number of Common Shares outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights
or warrants, immediately prior to such issuance, plus the number of additional
Common Shares offered for subscription or purchase, and of which the denominator
shall be the number of Common Shares outstanding on the date of issuance of such
rights or warrants, immediately prior to such issuance, plus the number of
Common Shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of Common
Shares so offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such Current
Market Price (determined by multiplying such total number of shares by the
exercise price of such rights or warrants and dividing the product so obtained
by such Current Market Price). Common Shares owned by the Corporation or by
another company of which a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the
election of directors are held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation shall
not be deemed to be outstanding for purposes of such computation. Such
adjustment shall become effective at the opening of business on the Business Day
next following the record date for such rights or warrants. To the extent that
Common Shares are not delivered after the expiration of such rights or warrants,
the Exchange Rate shall be readjusted to the Exchange Rate which would then be
in effect had the adjustment made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants
been made upon the basis of the issuance of rights or warrants in respect of
only the number of Common Shares actually delivered.

               (iii) If the Corporation shall pay a dividend or make a
distribution to all holders of its Common Shares consisting of evidences of its
indebtedness or other assets (including capital shares of the Corporation other
than Common Shares but excluding any cash dividends or any distributions and
dividends referred to in clause (i) above), or shall issue to all holders of its
Common Shares rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any of its
securities (other than those referred to in clause (ii) above), then in each
such case the Exchange Rate shall be adjusted by multiplying the Exchange Rate
in effect on the record date for such dividend or distribution or the
determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, as
the case may be, by a fraction, of which the numerator shall be the Current
Market Price of the Common Shares (determined pursuant to paragraph (d)(v) of
this Section 4.4.3) on such record date, and of which the denominator shall be
such Current Market Price per Common Share less the fair market value (as
determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, whose determination
shall be conclusive) as of such record date of the portion of the assets or
evidences of indebtedness so distributed, or of such subscription rights or
warrants, applicable to one Common Share. Such adjustment shall become effective
on the opening of business on the Business Day next following the record date
for such dividend or distribution or the determination of shareholders entitled
to receive such rights or warrants, as the case may be.

               (iv)  Anything in this paragraph (d) notwithstanding, the
Corporation shall be entitled to make such upward adjustments in the Exchange
Rate, in addition to those required by this paragraph (d), as the Corporation in
its sole discretion shall determine to be advisable, in order that any share
dividends, subdivision of shares, distribution of rights to purchase shares or
securities, or distribution of securities convertible into or exchangeable for
shares (or any transaction which could be treated as any of the foregoing
transactions pursuant to Section 305 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended) hereafter made by the Corporation to its shareholders shall not be
taxable.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>

               (v) As used in this paragraph (d), the "Current Market Price" of
the Common Shares on any date shall be the average Closing Price per Common
Share of the Corporation on the 20 Trading Days immediately prior to, but not
including, the date of determination.

               (vi) In any case in which this paragraph (d) shall require that
an adjustment as a result of any event become effective at the opening of
business on the Business Day next following a record date and the date fixed for
conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4.4.3 occurs after such
record date, but before the occurrence of such event, the Corporation may in its
sole discretion elect to defer the following until after the occurrence of such
event: (A) issuing to the holder of any Series A Preferred Shares surrendered
for conversion the additional Common Shares issuable upon conversion before
giving effect to such adjustment; and (B) paying to such holder any amount in
cash in lieu of a fractional Common Share pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
Section 4.4.3.

          (e) Notice of Adjustments. Whenever the Exchange Rate is adjusted as
              ---------------------
provided in paragraph (d) hereof, the Corporation will file with the transfer
agent for the Series A Preferred Shares a certificate with respect to such
adjustment, make a prompt public announcement thereof and mail a notice to
holders of the Series A Preferred Shares setting forth the adjusted Exchange
Rate, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail and the facts
requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based.

          (f) Reservation of Common Shares. The Corporation shall reserve and at
              ----------------------------
all times keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but
unissued Shares, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Series A
Preferred Shares, such number of shares of its duly authorized Common Shares as
will from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all outstanding
Series A Preferred Shares; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not be
obligated to keep such shares available with respect to any Series A Preferred
Shares during any time that the conversion of such Series A Preferred Shares is
prohibited under a contract or other agreement between the holder of such Series
A Preferred Shares and the Corporation.

          (g) Payment of Taxes. The Corporation will pay any and all
              ----------------
documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the
issue or delivery of Common Shares on the conversion of Series A Preferred
Shares pursuant to this Section 4.4.3; provided, however, that the Corporation
shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any
registration of transfer involved in the issue or delivery of Common Shares in a
name other than that of the registered holder of Series A Preferred Shares
redeemed or converted or to be redeemed or converted, and no such issue or
delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has
paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the
satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid.

    4.4.4 Adjustment For Certain Consolidations or Mergers.  In case of any
          ------------------------------------------------
consolidation or merger to which the Corporation is a party (other than a merger
or consolidation in which the Corporation is the continuing corporation and in
which the Common Shares outstanding immediately prior to the merger or
consolidation remain unchanged), or in case of any sale or transfer to another
entity of the property of the Corporation as an entirety or substantially as an
entirety, or in case of any statutory share

                                      -7-
<PAGE>

exchange with another entity (other than in connection with an acquisition in
which the Common Shares outstanding immediately prior to the share exchange
remain unchanged), each Series A Preferred Share shall, after consummation of
such transaction, be subject to (i) conversion at the option of the holder into
the kind and amount of securities, cash, or other property receivable upon
consummation of such transaction by a holder of the number of Common Shares into
which such Series A Preferred Shares might have been converted immediately prior
to consummation of such transaction and (ii) conversion on the Conversion Date
into the kind and amount of securities, cash, or other property receivable upon
consummation of such transaction by a holder of the number of Common Shares into
which such Series A Preferred Shares would have been converted if the conversion
on the Conversion Date had occurred immediately prior to the date of
consummation of such transaction assuming in each case that such holder of
Common Shares failed to exercise rights of election, if any, as to the kind or
amount of securities, cash, or other property receivable upon consummation of
such transaction (provided that if the kind or amount of securities, cash, or
other property receivable upon consummation of such transaction is not the same
for each nonelecting share, then the kind and amount of securities, cash, or
other property receivable upon consummation of such transaction for each
nonelecting share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per
share by a plurality of the nonelecting shares). The kind and amount of
securities into which the Series A Preferred Shares shall be convertible after
consummation of such transaction shall be subject to adjustment as described
above under paragraph (d) of Section 4.4.3 following the date of consummation of
such transaction. The Corporation may not become a party to any such transaction
unless the terms thereof are consistent with the foregoing.

          4.4.5  Exchangeability.
                 ---------------

                 (a) The Series A Preferred Shares are exchangeable in whole, or
in part, at the option of the Corporation, for the Corporation's 2 3/4%
Convertible Subordinated Notes due 1999 (the "Convertible Notes") on any
dividend payment date beginning on March 15, 1997 at the rate of $79.875
principal amount of Convertible Notes for each Series A Preferred Share
outstanding at the time of exchange. The Corporation may effect such exchange
only if accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares have been
paid in full. An exchange of less than all of the outstanding Series A Preferred
Shares is permitted only if, immediately after giving effect to such exchange,
(i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Convertible Notes is not
less than $250,000,000, (ii) accrued and unpaid interest on the outstanding
Convertible Notes has been paid in full and certain other requirements as
specified in the related indenture for the Convertible Notes have been
satisfied, and (iii) the aggregate liquidating distribution amount for the
outstanding Series A Preferred Shares is not less than $250,000,000. The
Corporation will mail written notice of its intention to exchange to each holder
of record of the Series A Preferred Shares not less than 30 Trading Days or more
than 45 Trading Days prior to the date fixed for exchange.

                 (b) Upon the date fixed for exchange of Series A Preferred
Shares for Convertible Notes (the "Exchange Date"), if the Corporation has taken
all action required to authorize the issuance of the Convertible Notes in
exchange for Series A Preferred Shares, Series A Preferred Shares so exchanged
will no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights relating to such shares will
terminate, except only the right to receive dividends accrued and unpaid to and
including the Exchange Date and the right to receive the Convertible Notes upon
surrender of certificates representing the Series A Preferred Shares.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

                (c) In the event that Series A Preferred Shares have been
exchanged for Convertible Notes pursuant to this Section 4.4.5, the provisions
set forth under paragraphs (d), (f) and (g) of Section 4.4.3 hereof shall apply
with respect to the Convertible Notes to the same extent and to the same effect
as they would have applied to the Series A Preferred Shares.

          4.4.6 Liquidation Rights. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution
                ------------------
or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders
of Series A Preferred Shares are entitled to receive out of the assets of the
Corporation, whether such assets are stated capital or surplus of any nature,
before any payment is made or any assets are distributed to holders of Common
Shares and of any other class of shares of the Corporation ranking junior to the
Series A Preferred Shares, liquidating distributions in the amount of $79.875
per Series A Preferred Share plus accrued and unpaid dividends, whether or not
declared, without interest. If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the Series A Preferred
Shares and any other preferred shares ranking as to any such distribution on a
parity with the Series A Preferred Shares are not paid in full, the holders of
the Series A Preferred Shares and of such other preferred shares shall share
ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to the full respective
preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full
amount of the liquidating distribution to which they are entitled, the holders
of Series A Preferred Shares shall not be entitled to any further participation
in any distribution of assets by the Corporation. Neither a consolidation nor
merger of the Corporation with another corporation nor a sale or transfer of all
or part of the Corporation's assets for cash, securities or other property shall
be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for
these purposes.

          4.4.7 Voting Rights. Except as indicated below or otherwise required
                -------------
by law, holders of Series A Preferred Shares will have no voting rights. If (i)
at any time the equivalent of six quarterly dividends payable on the Series A
Preferred Shares are accrued and unpaid or (ii) the Corporation fails to make
any payment upon mandatory redemption of the Series A Preferred Shares, the
number of directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two and the holders
of all outstanding Series A Preferred Shares, voting separately as a class,
shall be entitled to elect the additional two directors to serve until all
dividends accrued and unpaid have been paid or declared and funds set aside to
provide for payment in full or the Corporation fulfills its mandatory redemption
obligation, as the case may be.

          In addition, without the vote or consent of the holders of at least
two-thirds of the Series A Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Corporation
may not (a) create or issue or increase the authorized number of shares of any
class or series of shares ranking prior to the Series A Preferred Shares either
as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or any security
convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for such Shares, (b) purchase or
redeem less than all of the Series A Preferred Shares then outstanding when any
dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares are in arrears, or (c) amend, alter
or repeal any of the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation so as to affect
any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Series A Preferred
Shares or the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Shares or the creation and issuance of any other
class of Preferred Shares, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of
such class or of any other class of Preferred Shares, in each case ranking on a
parity with or junior to the Series A Preferred Shares with respect to the
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to affect such rights,
preferences or voting powers.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE V

                             NO PREEMPTIVE RIGHT'S

     Shareholders of the Corporation have no preemptive rights to acquire
additional shares of stock or securities convertible into shares of stock issued
by the Corporation.

                                  ARTICLE VI

                                   DIRECTORS

     6.1  Number. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed in
          ------
the manner specified by the bylaws of the Corporation.

     6.2 Vacancies. Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any
         ---------
increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled only by a
majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a
sole remaining director, unless for any reason there are no directors in office
in which case they shall be filled by a special election by shareholders.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                             ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

     Shareholders of the Corporation shall not have the right to cumulate votes
in the election of directors.


                                 ARTICLE VIII

                         SPECIAL SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS

     Special meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation for any purpose or
purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, or by a committee
of the Board of Directors which has been duly designated by the Board of
Directors and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the
Board of Directors or in the bylaws of the Corporation, include the power to
call such meetings, but such special meetings may not be called by any other
person or persons.

                                  ARTICLE IX

                              AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS

     In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute,
the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, adopt, repeal, alter,
amend, and rescind the bylaws of the Corporation by a resolution adopted by a
majority of the directors.

                                      -10-
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE X

                        LIMITATION OF DIRECTOR LIABILITY

     A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the
Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for conduct as a director,
except for:

     (a)  Acts or omissions involving intentional misconduct by the director or
          a knowing violation of law by the director;

     (b)  Conduct violating Section 23B.08.310 of the Act (which involves
          distributions by the Corporation);

     (c)  Any transaction from which the director will personally receive a
          benefit in money, property, or services to which the director is not
          legally entitled.

If the Washington Business Corporation Act is amended to authorize corporate
action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then
the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to
the fullest extent not prohibited by the Washington Business Corporation Act, as
so amended. The provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be a contract with
each Director of the Corporation who serves as such at any time while such
provisions are in effect, and each such Directors shall be deemed to be serving
as such in reliance on the provisions of this Article. Any repeal or
modification of the foregoing paragraph by the shareholders of the Corporation
shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the
Corporation with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring
prior to such repeal or modification.

                                  ARTICLE XI

               MERGERS, SHARE EXCHANGES, AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS

     A merger, share exchange, sale of substantially all of the Corporation's
assets, or dissolution must be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the Corporation's outstanding shares entitled to vote, or if separate voting by
voting groups is required then by not less than a majority of all the votes
entitled to be cast by that voting group.

                                      -11-
<PAGE>

                                  ARTICLE XII

                                INDEMNIFICATION

     12.1 Definitions.   As used in this Article:
          -----------

     a.   "Agent" means an individual who is or was an agent of the Corporation
           -----
or an individual who, while an agent of the Corporation, is or was serving at
the Corporation's request as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or
agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise. "Agent" includes, unless the
context requires otherwise, the spouse, heirs, estate and personal
representative of an agent.

     b.   "Corporation" means the Corporation, and any domestic or foreign
           -----------
predecessor entity which, in a merger or other transaction, ceased to exist.

     c.   "Director" means an individual who is or was a director of the
           --------
Corporation or an individual who, while a director of the Corporation, is or was
serving at the Corporation's request as a director officer, partner, trustee,
employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership,
joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise. "Director"
includes, unless the context requires otherwise, the spouse, heirs, estate and
personal representative of a director.

     d.   "Employee" means an individual who is or was an employee of the
           --------
Corporation or an individual, while an employee of the Corporation, is or was
serving at the Corporation's request as a director, officer, partner, trustee,
employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership,
joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise- "Employee"
includes, unless the context requires otherwise, the spouse, heirs, estate and
personal representative of an employee.

     e.   "Expenses" include counsel fees.
           --------

     f.   "Indemnitee" means an individual made a party to a proceeding because
           ----------
the individual is or was a Director, Officer, Employee, or Agent of the
Corporation, and who possesses indemnification rights pursuant to these Articles
or other corporate action. "Indemnitee" includes, unless the context requires
otherwise, the spouse, heirs, estate, and personal representative of such
individuals.

     g.   "Liability" means the obligation to pay a judgment, settlement
           ---------
penalty, fine, including an excise tax with respect to an employee benefit plan,
or reasonable Expenses incurred with respect to a proceeding.

     h.   "Officer" means an individual who is or was an officer of the
           -------
Corporation (regardless of whether or not such individual was also a Director)
or an individual who, while an officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at
the Corporation's request as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or
agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise. "Officer" includes, unless
the context requires otherwise, the spouse, heirs, estate and personal
representative of an officer.

                                      -12-
<PAGE>

     i.   "Party" includes an individual who was, is, or is threatened to be
           -----
named a defendant, respondent or witness in a proceeding.

     j.   "Proceeding" means any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit,
           ----------
or proceeding, whether civil, derivative, criminal, administrative, or
investigative, and whether formal or informal.

     12.2 Indemnification Rights of Directors and Officers. The Corporation
          ------------------------------------------------
shall indemnify its Directors and Officers to the full extent not prohibited by
applicable law now or hereafter in force against liability arising out of a
Proceeding to which such individual was made a Party because the individual is
or was a Director or an Officer. However, such indemnity shall not apply on
account of:

     (a)  Acts or omissions of a Director or Officer finally adjudged to be
          intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law;

     (b)  Conduct of a Director or Officer finally adjudged to be in violation
          of Section 23B.08.310 of the Act relating to distributions by the
          Corporation; or

     (c)  Any transaction with respect to which it was finally adjudged that
          such Director or Officer personally received a benefit in money,
          property, or services to which the Director or Officer was not legally
          entitled.

Subject to the foregoing, it is specifically intended that Proceedings covered
by indemnification shall include Proceedings brought by the Corporation
(including derivative actions) Proceedings by government entities and
governmental officials or other third party actions.

     12.3 Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation.  The
          ----------------------------------------------------------
Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors from time to time, provide
indemnification and pay Expenses in advance of the final disposition of a
Proceeding to Employees and Agents of the Corporation who are not also
Directors, in each case to the same extent as to a Director with respect to the
indemnification and advancement of Expenses pursuant to rights granted under, or
provided by, the Act or otherwise.

     12.4 Partial Indemnification.  If an Indemnitee is entitled to
          -----------------------
indemnification by the Corporation for some or a portion of Expenses,
liabilities, or losses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in an
investigation, defense, appeal or settlement but not, however, for the total
amount thereof, the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the
portion of such Expenses, liabilities or losses to which Indemnitee is entitled.

     12.5 Procedure for Seeking Indemnification and/or Advancement of Expenses.
          ---------------------------------------------------------------------
The following procedures shall apply in the absence of (or at the option of the
Indemnitee, in lieu thereof), specific procedures otherwise applicable to an
Indemnitee pursuant to a contract, trust agreement, or general or specific
action of the Board of Directors:

          12.5.1  Notification and Defense of Claim. Indemnitee shall promptly
                  ---------------------------------
     notify the Corporation in writing of any proceeding for which
     indemnification could be sought under this

                                      -13-
<PAGE>

Article. In addition, Indemnitee shall give the Corporation such information and
cooperation as it may reasonably require and as shall be within Indemnitee's
power.

     With respect to any such proceeding as to which Indemnitee has notified the
     Corporation:

               (a)  The Corporation will be entitled to participate therein at
                    its own expense; and

               (b)  Except as otherwise provided below, to the extent that it
                    may wish, the Corporation, jointly with any other
                    indemnifying party similarly notified, will be entitled to
                    assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to
                    Indemnitee. Indemnitee's consent to such counsel may not be
                    unreasonably withheld.

     After notice from the Corporation to Indemnitee of its election to assume
the defense, the Corporation will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Article
for any legal or other Expenses subsequently incurred by Indemnitee in
connection with such defense. However, Indemnitee shall continue to have the
right to employ its counsel in such proceeding, at Indemnitee's expense; and if:

     (i)    The employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been authorized by
            the Corporation;

     (ii)   Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a
            conflict of interest between the Corporation and Indemnitee in the
            conduct of such defense; or

     (iii)  The Corporation shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume
            the defense of such proceeding,

the fees and Expenses of Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the
Corporation.

     The Corporation shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any
proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Corporation or as to which Indemnitee
shall reasonably have made the conclusion that a conflict of interest may exist
between the Corporation and the Indemnitee in the conduct of the defense.

     12.5.2  Information to be Submitted and Method of Determination and
             -----------------------------------------------------------
Authorization of Indemnification.  For the purpose of pursuing rights to
- --------------------------------
indemnification under this Article, the Indemnitee shall submit to the Board a
sworn statement requesting indemnification and reasonable evidence of all
amounts for which such indemnification is requested (together, the sworn
statement and the evidence constitute an "Indemnification Statement").

     Submission of an Indemnification Statement to the Board shall create a
presumption that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification hereunder, and
the Corporation shall, within sixty (60) calendar days thereafter, make the
payments requested in the Indemnification Statement to or for the benefit of the
Indemnitee, unless: (1) within such sixty (60) calendar day period it shall be
determined by the Corporation that the Indemnitee is not entitled to
indemnification under this Article; (2) such

                                      -14-
<PAGE>

determination shall be based upon clear and convincing evidence (sufficient to
rebut the foregoing presumption); and (3) the Indemnitee shall receive notice in
writing of such determination, which notice shall disclose with particularity
the evidence upon which the determination is based.

     The foregoing determination may be made: (1) by the Board of Directors by
majority vote of a quorum of Directors who are not at the time parties to the
proceedings; (2) if a quorum cannot be obtained, by majority vote of a committee
duly designated by the Board of Directors (in which designation Directors who
are parties may participate) consisting solely of two (2) or more Directors not
at the time parties to the proceeding; (3) by special legal counsel; or (4) by
the shareholders as provided by Section 23B.08.550 of the Act.

     Any determination that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification,
and any failure to make the payments requested in the Indemnification Statement,
shall be subject to judicial review by any court of competent jurisdiction.

            12.5.3  Special Procedure Regarding Advance for Expenses. An
                    ------------------------------------------------
Indemnitee seeking payment of Expenses in advance of a final disposition of the
proceeding must furnish the Corporation, as part of the Indemnification
Statement:

          (a)  A written affirmation of the Indemnitee's good faith belief that
               the Indemnitee has met the standard of conduct required to be
               eligible for indemnification; and

          (b)  A written undertaking, constituting an  unlimited general
               obligation of the Indemnitee, to repay the advance if it is
               ultimately determined that the Indemnitee did not meet the
               required standard of conduct.

     Upon satisfaction of the foregoing the Indemnitee shall have a contractual
right to the payment of such Expenses.

            12.5.4  Settlement. The Corporation is not liable to indemnify
                    ----------
Indemnitee for any amounts paid in settlement of any proceeding without the
Corporation's written consent. The Corporation shall not settle any proceeding
in any manner which would impose any penalty or limitation on Indemnitee without
Indemnitee's written consent. Neither the Corporation nor Indemnitee may
unreasonably withhold its consent to a proposed settlement.

     12.6.  Contract and related rights.
            ---------------------------

            12.6.1  Contract Rights. The right of an Indemnitee to
                    ---------------
     indemnification and advancement of Expenses is a contract right upon which
     the Indemnitee shall be presumed to have relied in determining to serve or
     to continue to serve in his or her capacity with the Corporation. Such
     right shall continue as long as the Indemnitee shall be subject to any
     possible proceeding. Any amendment to or repeal of this Article shall not
     adversely affect any right or protection of an Indemnitee with respect to
     any acts or omissions of such Indemnitee occurring prior to such amendment
     or repeal.

                                      -15-
<PAGE>

     12.6.2   Optional Insurance, Contracts, and Funding.  The
              ------------------------------------------
     Corporation may:

              (a)  Maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any
                   Indemnitee against any liability, whether or not the
                   Corporation would have power to indemnify the individual
                   against the same liability under Section 23B.08.5 10 or .520
                   of the Act;

              (b)  Enter into contracts with any Indemnitee in furtherance of
                   this Article and consistent with the Act; and

              (c)  Create a trust fund, grant a security interest, or use other
                   means (including without limitation a letter of credit) to
                   ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to
                   effect indemnification as provided in this Article.

     12.6.3   Severability. If any provision or application of this Article
              ------------
shall be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Article and its
remaining applications shall not be affected thereby, and shall continue in full
force and effect.

     12.6.4   Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit. If (1) a claim under this
              ---------------------------------
Article for indemnification is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty
(60) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation; or (2) a
claim under this Article for advancement of Expenses is not paid in full by the
Corporation within twenty (20) days after a written claim has been received by
the Corporation, then the Indemnitee may, but need not, at any time thereafter
bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. To
the extent successful in whole or in part, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to
also be paid the expense (to be proportionately prorated if the Indemnitee is
only partially successful) of prosecuting such claim. Neither (1) the failure of
the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its shareholders, or
independent legal counsel) to have made a determination prior to the
commencement of such proceeding that indemnification or reimbursement or
advancement of Expenses to the Indemnitee is proper in the circumstances; nor
(2) an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of
Directors, its shareholders, or independent legal counsel that the Indemnitee is
not entitled to indemnification or to the reimbursement or advancement of
Expenses, shall be a defense to the proceeding or create a presumption that the
Indemnitee is not so entitled.

     12.6.5  Nonexclusivity of Rights. The right to indemnification and the
             ------------------------
payment of Expenses incurred in defending a Proceeding in advance of its final
disposition granted in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right
which any Indemnitee may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision
of this Article or the Bylaws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested
directors, or otherwise. The Corporation shall have the express right to grant
additional indemnity without seeking further approval or satisfaction by the
shareholders. All applicable indemnity provisions and any applicable law shall
be interpreted and applied so as to provide an Indemnitee with the broadest but
nonduplicative indemnity to which he or she is entitled.

  12.7  Contribution.  If the indemnification provided in Section 12.2 of this
        ------------
Article is not available to be paid to Indemnitee for any reason other than
those set forth in subparagraphs 12.2(a), 12.2(b), and 12.2(c) of Section 12.2
of this Article (for example, because indemnification is held to be

                                      -16-
<PAGE>

against public policy even though otherwise permitted under Section 12.2) then
in respect of any proceeding in which the Corporation is jointly liable with
Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such proceeding), the Corporation shall
contribute to the amount of loss paid or payable by Indemnitee in such
proportion as is appropriate to reflect:

     The relative benefits received by the Corporation on the one hand and the
     Indemnitee on the other hand from the transaction from which such
     proceeding arose, and

     The relative fault of the Corporation on the one hand and the Indemnitee on
     the other hand in connection with the events which resulted in such loss,
     as well as any other relevant equitable consideration.

     The relative benefits received by and fault of the Corporation on the one
     hand and the Indemnitee on the other shall be determined by a court of
     appropriate jurisdiction (which may be the same court in which the
     proceeding took place) with reference to, among other things, the parties'
     relative intent, knowledge, access to information, and opportunity to
     correct or prevent the circumstances resulting in such loss. The
     Corporation agrees that it would not be just and equitable if a
     contribution pursuant to this Article was determined by pro rata allocation
     or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the
     foregoing equitable considerations.

     12.8  Exceptions. Any other provision herein to the contrary
           ----------
notwithstanding, the Corporation shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of
these Articles to indemnify or advance Expenses to Indemnitee with respect to
any proceeding.

           12.8.1  Claims Initiated by Indemnitee. Initiated or brought
                   ------------------------------
     voluntarily by Indemnitee and not by way of defense, but such
     indemnification or advancement of Expenses may be provided by the
     Corporation in specific cases if the Board of Directors finds it to be
     appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall provide
     indemnification including the advancement of Expenses with respect to
     Proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification
     under these Articles or any other statute or law or as otherwise required
     under the statute.

           12.8.2  Lack of Good Faith. Instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or
                   ------------------
     interpret this Article, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines
     that each of the material assertions made by Indemnitee in such proceeding
     was not made in good faith or was frivolous.

           12.8.3  Insured Claims. For which any of the Expenses or liabilities
                   --------------
     for indemnification is being sought have been paid directly to Indemnitee
     by an insurance carrier under a policy of officers' and directors'
     liability insurance maintained by the Corporation.

           12.8.4  Prohibited by Law. If the Corporation is prohibited by the
                   -----------------
     Act or other applicable law as then in effect from paying such
     indemnification and/or advancement of Expenses. For example, the
     Corporation and Indemnitee acknowledge that the Securities and Exchange
     Commission ("SEC") has taken the position that indemnification is not
     possible for liabilities

                                      -17-
<PAGE>

     arising under certain federal securities laws. Indemnitee understands and
     acknowledges that the Corporation has undertaken or may be required in the
     future to undertake with the SEC to submit the question of indemnification
     to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the
     Corporation's right to indemnify Indemnitee.

     12.9  Successors and Assigns.   All obligations of the Corporation to
           ----------------------
indemnify any Director or Officer shall be binding upon all successors and
assigns of the Corporation (including any transferee of all or substantially all
of its assets and any successor by merger or other-wise by operation of law).
The Corporation shall not effect any sale of substantially all of its assets,
merger, consolidation, or other reorganization, in which it is not the surviving
entity, unless the surviving entity agrees in writing to assume all such
obligations of the Corporation.

                                 ARTICLE XIII

                  CORPORATION'S ACQUISITION OF ITS OWN SHARES

     The Corporation may purchase, redeem, receive, take or otherwise acquire,
own and hold, sell, lend, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose of, pledge,
use and otherwise deal with and in its own shares. As a specific modification of
Section 23B.06.310 of the Act, pursuant to the authority in Section
23B.02.020(5)(c) of the Act, to include provisions related to the management of
the business and the regulation of the affairs of the Corporation, shares of the
Corporation's stock acquired by it pursuant to this Article shall be considered
"Treasury Stock" and so held by the Corporation. The shares so acquired by the
Corporation shall not be considered as authorized and unissued but rather as
authorized, issued, and held by the Corporation. The shares, so acquired shall
not be regarded as cancelled or as a reduction to the authorized capital of the
Corporation unless specifically so designated by the Board of Directors in an
amendment to these Articles of Incorporation. The provisions of this Article do
not alter or effect the status of the Corporation's acquisition of its shares as
a "distribution" by the Corporation as defined in Section 23B.01.400(6) of the
Act, nor alter or effect the limitations on distributions by the Corporation as
set forth in Section 23B.06.400 of the Act. Any shares so acquired by the
Corporation, unless otherwise specifically designated by the Board of Directors,
at the time of acquisition, shall be considered on subsequent disposition, as
transferred rather than reissued. Nothing in this Article limits or restricts
the right of the Corporation to resell or otherwise dispose of any of its shares
previously acquired for such consideration and according to such procedures as
established by the Board of Directors.

     The undersigned has signed these Restated Articles of Incorporation as of
March 12, 1999.


                                                     /s/ Robert A. Eshelman
                                                     _______________________
                                                     Robert A. Eshelman
                                                     Assistant Secretary

                                      -18-
<PAGE>

                            RESTATEMENT CERTIFICATE



     The undersigned officer of Microsoft Corporation (the "Corporation") hereby
certifies as follows:

     1.  The name of the Corporation is Microsoft Corporation.

     2.  The attached Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation
contains an amendment to one section, Section 4.1.  This section has been
replaced in its entirety.  The new section increases the number of shares that
the Corporation has the authority to issue from 4,100,000,000 to 12,100,000,000
(increasing the number of authorized Common Shares from 4,000,000,000 to
12,000,000,000 but maintaining the number of authorized Preferred Shares at
100,000,000).  In addition, the new Section 4.1 halves the par value of the
Common Shares from $.000025 to $.0000125.  Otherwise, the Amended and Restated
Articles of Incorporation restates the Articles of Incorporation of the
Corporation in its entirety.

     3.  The amendment does not provide for an exchange, reclassification or
cancellation of issued shares.

     4.  The amendment was duly adopted by the Board of Directors as of January
23, 1999 in accordance with the provisions of Sections 23B.06.020 and 23B.10.070
of the Washington Business Corporation Act. The shareholders of the Corporation
duly approved the amendment on March 12, 1999 in accordance with the provisions
of Sections 23B.10.030 and 23B.10.040 of the Washington Business Corporation
Act.

                                                     MICROSOFT CORPORATION


                                                  By /s/ Robert A. Eshelman
                                                     ________________________
                                                     Robert A. Eshelman
                                                     Assistant Secretary
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>BYLAWS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit 3.2


                                    BYLAWS

                                      OF

                             MICROSOFT CORPORATION


                                   ARTICLE I

                                 Shareholders

          1.1  Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the shareholders of the
Corporation for the election of Directors and for the transaction of such other
business as properly may be submitted to such annual meeting, shall be held at
the hour and on the date designated by the Board of Directors or an authorized
committee of the Board of Directors, such date to be within 150 days of the end
of the fiscal year.

          1.2  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the shareholders of the
Corporation, for any purpose or purposes, may be called at any time by the Board
of Directors or  an authorized committee of the Board of Directors.

          1.3  Place of Meetings.  Meetings of shareholders shall be held at
such place within or without the State of Washington as determined by the Board
of Directors, or an authorized committee, pursuant to proper notice.

          1.4  Notice. Written notice of each shareholders' meeting stating the
date, time, and place and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose(s) for
which such meeting is called, shall be given by the Corporation not less than
ten (10) (unless a greater period of notice is required by law in a particular
case) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of the meeting, to each
shareholder of record, to the shareholder's address as it appears on the current
record of shareholders of the Corporation.

          1.5  Quorum of Shareholders.  At any meeting of the shareholders, a
majority in interest of all the shares entitled to vote on a matter, represented
by shareholders of record in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum of
that voting group for action on that matter.

          Once a share is represented at a meeting, other than to object to
holding the meeting or transacting business, it is deemed to be present for
quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that
meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for the adjourned meeting.
At such reconvened meeting, any business may be transacted that might have been
transacted at the meeting as originally notified.

          If a quorum exists, action on a matter is approved by a voting group
if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes
cast within the voting group opposing the action, unless the question is one
upon which by express provision of the Washington Business Corporation Act, as
amended ("WBCA"), or of the Articles of Incorporation or of these Bylaws a
different vote is required.

                                       1
<PAGE>

          1.6   Adjournment.  A majority of the shares represented at the
meeting, even if less than a quorum, may adjourn the meeting from time to time.
At such reconvened meeting at which a quorum is present any business may be
transacted at the meeting as originally notified.  If a meeting is adjourned to
a different date, time, or place, notice need not be given of the new date,
time, or place if a new date, time, or place is announced at the meeting before
adjournment; however, if a new record date for the adjourned meeting is or must
be fixed in accordance with the WBCA, notice of the adjourned meeting must be
given to persons who are shareholders as of the new record date.

          1.7   Record Date and Transfer Books.  For the purpose of determining
shareholders who are entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of
shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any
dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other
proper purpose, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a record date for any
such determination of shareholders, such date in any case to be not more than
seventy (70) days and, in case of a meeting of shareholders, not less than ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring such
determination of shareholders, is to be taken.

          If no record date is fixed for such purposes, the date on which notice
of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of
Directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the
record date for such determination of shareholders.

          When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting
of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, such determination
shall apply to any adjournment thereof, unless the Board of Directors fixes a
new record date, which it must do if the meeting is adjourned more than one
hundred twenty (120) days after the date is fixed for the original meeting.

          1.8   Voting Record.  The officer or agent having charge of the stock
transfer books for shares of the Corporation shall make at least ten (10) days
before each meeting of shareholders a complete record of the shareholders
entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof, arranged by any
applicable voting groups and in alphabetical order, with the address of and the
number of shares held by each. Such record shall be produced and kept open at
the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any
shareholder or any shareholder's agent during the whole time of the meeting for
the purposes thereof.

          1.9   Proxies.  Shareholders of record may vote at any meeting either
in person or by proxy.  A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote for the
shareholder by submission of (i) an appointment form signed by the shareholder
or the shareholder's attorney-in-fact, or (ii) an electronic transmission which
contains or is accompanied by information from which it can be reasonably
verified that the transmission was authorized by the shareholder or by the
shareholder's attorney-in-fact.  As used in this Section 1.9, "electronic
transmission" means any process of communication not directly involving the
physical transfer of paper that is suitable for the retention, retrieval, and
reproduction of

                                       2
<PAGE>

information by the recipient. An appointment of proxy is effective when an
appointment form or an electronic transmission (or documentary evidence thereof,
including verification information) is received by the person authorized to
tabulate votes for the Corporation. The proxy has the same power to vote as that
possessed by the shareholder, unless the appointment form or electronic
transmission contains an express limitation on the power to vote or direction as
to how to vote the shares on a particular matter, in which event the Corporation
must tabulate the votes in a manner consistent with that limitation or
direction. An appointment of proxy is valid for eleven (11) months unless a
longer period is expressly provided in the appointment form or electronic
transmission.


          1.10  Organization of Meeting.  The officer designated by the Board of
Directors as Chief Executive Office (or in his absence, any other officer
designated by the Board of Directors) may call any meeting of shareholders to
order and shall be the Chairman thereof.  The Secretary of the Corporation, if
present at any meeting of its shareholders, shall act as the Secretary of such
meeting.  If the Secretary is absent from any such meeting, the Chairman of such
meeting may appoint a Secretary for the meeting.

          1.11  Order of Business.  The Chairman of a meeting of shareholders,
determined in accordance with Section 1.10, shall have discretion to establish
the order of business for such meeting subject to any specific order established
by the Board of Directors.

                                  ARTICLE II

                              Board of Directors

          2.1   Number and Qualifications.  The business affairs and property of
the Corporation shall be managed by a Board of not less than three directors nor
more than eleven directors.  The number of directors may at any time be
increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors or by the
shareholders at the annual meeting.  Directors need not be shareholders of the
Corporation or residents of the state of Washington.

          2.2   Election - Term of Office.  The directors shall be elected by
the shareholders at each annual shareholders' meeting to hold office until the
next annual meeting of the shareholders and until their respective successors
are elected and qualified.  If, for any reason, the directors shall not have
been elected at any annual meeting, they may be elected at a special meeting of
shareholders called for that purpose in the manner provided by these Bylaws.

          2.3   Regular Meetings.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors
shall be held at such places, and at such times as the Board may determine, and,
if so determined, no notice thereof need be given.  A regular meeting of the
Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of
shareholders at the same place at which such meeting was held.

                                       3
<PAGE>

          2.4   Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors
may be held at any time or place upon the call of a majority of directors,  the
Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Operating Officer by oral or written
notice, given or mailed to each director not less than two (2) days before such
meeting.

          2.5   Notice.  No notice is required for regular meetings of the Board
of Directors.  Notice of special meetings of the Board of Directors, stating the
date, time, and place thereof, shall be given at least two (2) days prior to the
date of the meeting.  The  purpose of the meeting need not be given in the
notice.  Such notice may be oral or written.

          2.6   Waiver of Notice.  A director may waive notice of a special
meeting of the Board either before or after the meeting, and such waiver shall
be deemed to be the equivalent of giving notice. The waiver must be in writing,
signed by the director entitled to the notice and delivered to the Corporation
for inclusion in its corporate records.  Attendance or participation of a
director at a meeting shall constitute waiver of notice of that meeting unless
said director attends or participates for the express purpose of objecting to
the transaction of business because the meeting has not been lawfully called or
convened.

          2.7   Quorum of Directors.  A majority of the members of the Board of
Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at
any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority
of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall
have been obtained.  When a quorum is present at any meeting, a majority of the
members present shall decide any question brought before such meeting, except as
otherwise provided by the Articles of Incorporation or by these Bylaws.

          2.8   Adjournment.  A majority of the directors present, even if less
than a quorum, may adjourn a meeting and continue it to a later time.  Notice of
the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted thereat, other than by
announcement, shall not be necessary.  At any adjourned meeting at which a
quorum is present, any business may be transacted which could have been
transacted at the meeting as originally called.

          2.9   Resignation.  Any director of the Corporation may resign at any
time by  giving written notice to the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the
President, or the Secretary of the Corporation.  Any such resignation is
effective when the notice is delivered, unless the notice specifies a later
effective date.

          2.10  Vacancies.  Unless otherwise provided by the WBCA, in case of
any vacancy in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from an
increase in the number of directors, the remaining directors, whether
constituting a quorum or not, may fill the vacancy.

          2.11  Compensation. The Board shall have the sole authority to fix the
amount of compensation of directors.

                                       4
<PAGE>

          2.12  Committees.  The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a
majority of the full Board of Directors, may designate from among its members
one or more  committees, each of which:

                 a.  Shall have two (2) or more members;

                 b.  Shall be governed by the same rules regarding meetings,
     action without meetings, notice, and waiver of notice, and quorum and
     voting requirements as applied to the Board of Directors; and

                 c.  To the extent provided in such resolution, shall have and
     may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors, except no such
     committee shall have the authority to:

                     (1) Authorize or approve a distribution except according to
          a general formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors;

                     (2) Approve or propose to shareholders action which the
          WBCA requires to be approved by shareholders;

                     (3) Fill vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any of
          its committees;

                     (4) Amend the Articles of Incorporation;

                     (5) Adopt, amend, or repeal the Bylaws;

                     (6) Approve a plan of merger not requiring shareholder
          approval; or

                     (7) Authorize or approve the issuance or sale or contract
          for sale of shares, or determine the designation and relative rights,
          preferences, and limitations on a class or series of shares, except
          that the Board of Directors may authorize a committee, or a senior
          executive officer of the Corporation, to do so within limits
          specifically prescribed by the Board of Directors.

                                       5
<PAGE>

                                  ARTICLE III

                   Special Measures Applying to Meetings of
       Shareholders, the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board

     3.1  Action by Written Consent.  Any action required or permitted to be
taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board may be
accomplished without a meeting if the action is taken by all the members of the
Board or all the members of the committee, as the case may be.  The action must
be evidenced by one or more written consents describing the action to be taken,
signed by all directors or all members of the committee, as the case may be, and
delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes.  Directors' consents
may be signed either before or after the action taken.

     Action taken by unanimous written consent is effective when the last
director signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a later effective date.

     3.2  Use of Communications Equipment.  Meetings of the shareholders, the
Board of Directors and committees of the Board may be effectuated by means of a
conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all
persons participating in the meeting can hear each other during the meeting.
Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.

     3.3  Oral and Written Notice.  Oral notice may be communicated in person
or by telephone, wire or wireless equipment that does not transmit a facsimile
of the notice.  Oral notice is effective when communicated if communicated in a
comprehensible manner.

     Written notice may be transmitted by mail, private carrier, or personal
delivery; telegraph or teletype; or telephone, wire, or wireless equipment that
transmits a facsimile of the notice and provides the transmitter with an
electronically generated receipt.  Written notice is effective at the earliest
of the following: (a) when received; (b) five (5) days after its deposit in the
US. mail if mailed with first-class postage; (c) on the date shown on the return
receipt, if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and
the receipt is signed by or on behalf of the addressee.


                                  ARTICLE IV

                                   Officers

     4.1  Positions.  The officers of the Corporation may consist of a Chairman,
a President, one or more Vice Presidents (who may be designated as Vice
Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents or Executive Vice Presidents), a Secretary
and a Treasurer as appointed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive
Officer.  The Corporation may have such additional or assistant officers
(sometimes referred to as "additional

                                       6
<PAGE>

officers") as the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating
Officer may deem necessary for its business and may appoint from time to time.
The Board of Directors shall also have the authority, but shall not be required,
to designate officers as the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating
Officer the Chief Financial Officer or similar such titles. Any two or more
offices may be held by the same person.

     If a director/officer has not been designated as Chairman, or if the
designated Chairman is not present,  the Board of Directors shall elect a
Chairman from amongst its members to serve as Chairman of the Board of
Directors.  The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Directors, and shall have such other powers as the Board may determine.

     4.2   Appointment and Term of Office.  The officers of the Corporation
shall be appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of
the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the shareholders.  If
officers are not appointed at such meeting, such appointment shall occur as soon
as possible thereafter, or may be left vacant.  Each officer shall hold office
until a successor shall have been appointed and qualified or until said
officer's earlier death, resignation, or removal.

     4.3   Authority and Duties of the Chief Executive Officer.  The Chief
Executive Officer shall have general charge and supervision of the business of
the Corporation, shall see that all orders, actions and resolutions of the Board
of Directors are carried out, and shall have such other authority and shall
perform such other duties as set forth in these bylaws or, to the extent
consistent with the bylaws, such other authorities and duties as prescribed by
the Board of Directors.

     4.4   Authority and Duties of Other Officers.  Each officer other than the
Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority and shall perform the duties
set forth in these bylaws or, to the extent consistent with the bylaws, the
duties prescribed by the Board of Directors, by the Chief Executive Officer, or
by an officer authorized by the Board of Directors to prescribe the duties of
such officer.  Any designation of duties by the Chief Executive Officer or other
officer shall be subject to review by the Board of Directors but shall be in
full force and effect in the absence of such review.

     4.5   Compensation and Contract Rights. The Board of Directors shall have
authority (a) to fix the compensation, whether in the form of salary, bonus,
stock options or otherwise, of all officers and employees of the Corporation,
either specifically or by formula applicable to particular classes of officers
or employees, and (b) to authorize officers of the Corporation to fix the
compensation of subordinate employees. The Board of Directors shall have
authority to appoint a Compensation Committee and may delegate to such committee
any or all of its authority relating to compensation. The appointment of an
officer shall not of itself create contract rights.

     4.6   Resignation or Removal.  Any officer of the Corporation may resign at
any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors.  Any such
resignation is effective when the notice is delivered, unless the notice
specifies a later date, and shall be without prejudice to the contract rights,
if any, of such officer.

                                       7
<PAGE>

     The Board of Directors, by majority vote of the entire Board, may remove
any officer or agent, with or without cause.  An officer or assistant officer,
if appointed by another officer,  may also be removed by any officer authorized
to appoint  officers or assistant officers.  The removal shall be without
prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.

     4.7   Vacancies.  If any office becomes vacant by any reason, the directors
may appoint a successor or successors who shall hold office for the unexpired
term or leave such office vacant.

                                       8
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE V

                   Certificates of Shares and Their Transfer

     5.1  Issuance; Certificates of Shares.  No shares of the Corporation shall
be issued unless authorized by the Board. Such authorization shall include the
maximum number of shares to be issued, the consideration to be received, and a
statement that the Board considers the consideration to be adequate.  Shares may
but need not be represented by certificates.  Certificates for shares of the
Corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the provisions of the
WBCA or the law of a predecessor corporation and after the effective date of
these Bylaws shall state:

            a. The name of the Corporation and that the Corporation is organized
     under the laws of the State of Washington;

            b. The name of the person to whom issued; and

            c. The number and class of shares and the designation of the series,
     if any, which such certificate represents.

     The certificate shall be signed by original or facsimile signature of two
officers of the Corporation, and the seal of the Corporation may be affixed
thereto.

     5.2  Transfer of Stock.  Shares of stock represented by certificates may
be transferred by delivery of the certificate accompanied by either an
assignment in writing on the back of the certificate or by a written power of
attorney to assign and transfer the same on the books of the Corporation, signed
by the record holder of the certificate.  The shares shall be transferable on
the books of the Corporation upon surrender thereof so assigned or endorsed.

     5.3  Rules and Regulations Concerning the Issue, Transfer and Registration
of Shares. The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make all
such rules and regulations as the Board may deem proper or expedient concerning
the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock. In case of the loss,
mutilation, or destruction of a certificate of stock, a duplicate certificate
may be issued upon such terms as the Board shall authorize. The Board shall have
power and authority to appoint from time to time one or more transfer agents and
registrar of the shares of stock.

     5.4  Shares without Certificates.  The Board of Directors may authorize
the issue of some or all of the shares without certificates.  Within a
reasonable time after the issue or transfer of shares without certificates, the
corporation shall send the shareholder a written statement of the information
required on certificates by the WBCA.

                                       9
<PAGE>

                                  ARTICLE VI

                               Books and Records

     6.1  Books of Accounts, Minutes, and Share Register.  Except as otherwise
provided by law the Corporation:

            a. Shall keep as permanent records minutes of all meetings of its
     shareholders and Board of Directors, a record of all actions taken by the
     Board of Directors without a meeting, and a record of all actions taken by
     a committee of the Board of Directors exercising the authority of the Board
     of Directors on behalf of the Corporation;

            b. Shall maintain appropriate accounting records;

            c. Or its agent shall maintain a record of its shareholders, in a
     form that permits preparation of a list of the names and addresses of all
     shareholders, in alphabetical order by class of shares showing the number
     and class of shares held by each; and

            d. Shall keep a copy of the following records at its principal
     office:

               (1)  The Articles or Restated Articles of Incorporation and all
          amendments to them currently in effect;

               (2)  The Bylaws or Restated Bylaws and all amendments to them
          currently in effect;

               (3)  The minutes of all shareholders' meetings, and records of
          all actions taken by shareholders without a meeting, for the past
          three (3) years;

               (4)  Its financial statements for the past three (3) years,
          including balance sheets showing in reasonable detail the financial
          condition of the Corporation as of the close of each fiscal year, and
          an income statement showing the results of its operations during each
          fiscal year prepared on the basis of generally accepted accounting
          principles or, if not, prepared on a basis explained therein;

               (5)  All written communications to shareholders generally within
          the past three (3) years;

               (6)  A list of the names and business addresses of its current
          directors and officers; and

                                       10
<PAGE>

               (7)  Its most recent annual report delivered to the Secretary of
           State of Washington.

     6.2  Copies of Resolutions.  Any person dealing with the Corporation may
rely upon a copy of any of the records of the proceedings, resolutions, or votes
of the Board of Directors or shareholders, when certified by the Secretary, an
assistant secretary, or other officer authorized by the Board.

                                       11
<PAGE>

Notes:

Section 1.9 was amended in September 1998 to provide for electronic proxy
voting.

                                       12
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>QUARTERLY AND MARKET INFORMATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 13.1

Quarterly Information
(In millions, except per share data) (Unaudited)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Quarter Ended
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        Sept. 30      Dec. 31      Mar. 31       June 30         Year
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>
1997
Revenue                                  $2,405       $2,808        $3,365        $3,358        $11,936
Gross profit                              1,923        2,250         2,782         2,811          9,766
Net income                                  614          741         1,042         1,057          3,454
Basic earnings per share                   0.13         0.15          0.22          0.22           0.72
Diluted earnings per share                 0.12         0.14          0.20          0.20           0.66
Common stock price per share:
  High                                    17.33        21.54         25.88         33.74          33.74
  Low                                     13.44        16.36         20.19         22.44          13.44
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1998
Revenue                                  $3,334       $3,792        $3,984        $4,152        $15,262
Gross profit                              2,800        3,179         3,344         3,479         12,802
Net income                                  663        1,133         1,337         1,357          4,490
Basic earnings per share                   0.14         0.24          0.27          0.27           0.92
Diluted earnings per share                 0.13         0.21          0.25          0.25           0.84
Common stock price per share:
  High                                    37.69        36.66         45.47         54.28          54.28
  Low                                     30.82        29.50         31.10         40.94          29.50
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1999
Revenue                                  $4,193       $5,195        $4,595        $5,764        $19,747
Gross profit                              3,544        4,407         3,887         5,095         16,933
Net income                                1,683        1,983         1,917         2,202          7,785
Basic earnings per share                   0.34         0.40          0.38          0.43           1.54
Diluted earnings per share                 0.31         0.36          0.35          0.40           1.42
Common stock price per share:
  High                                    59.81        72.00         94.63         95.63          95.63
  Low                                     47.25        48.13         68.00         75.50          47.25
=======================================================================================================
</TABLE>

    The Company's common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the
    symbol MSFT. On July 31, 1999, there were 92,169 registered holders of
    record of the Company's common stock. The Company has not paid cash
    dividends on its common stock.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.2
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 13.2

Financial Highlights
(In millions, except earnings per share)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                     1995         1996          1997          1998          1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenue                              $6,075      $ 9,050       $11,936       $15,262       $19,747
Net income                            1,453        2,195         3,454         4,490         7,785
Diluted earnings per share (1)         0.29         0.43          0.66          0.84          1.42
Cash and short-term investments      $4,750      $ 6,940       $ 8,966       $13,927       $17,236
Total assets                          7,210       10,093        14,387        22,357        37,156
Stockholders' equity                  5,333        6,908        10,777        16,627        28,438
===================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Diluted earnings per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one
     stock split in March 1999.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.3
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 13.3

Management's Discussion and Analysis

Results of Operations for 1997, 1998, and 1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports a wide range of
software products for a multitude of computing devices.  Microsoft software
includes scalable operating systems for intelligent devices, personal computers
(PCs), and servers; server applications for client/server environments;
knowledge worker productivity applications; and software development tools.  The
Company's online efforts include the MSN network of Internet products and
services; e-commerce platforms; and alliances with companies involved with
broadband access and various forms of digital interactivity.  Microsoft also
licenses consumer software programs; sells PC input devices; trains and
certifies system integrators; and researches and develops advanced technologies
for future software products.

                                                                         Revenue
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Company's revenue growth rate was 32% in fiscal 1997, 28% in fiscal 1998,
and 29% in fiscal 1999.  Revenue growth rates reflected the continued adoption
of Windows operating systems and Microsoft Office, particularly as Microsoft
software is deployed across entire corporate, academic, and governmental
organizations.  Software license volume increases have been the principal factor
in the Company's revenue growth.  The average selling price per license has
decreased, primarily because of general shifts in the sales mix from retail
packaged products to licensing programs, from new products to product upgrades,
and from stand-alone desktop applications to integrated product suites.  Average
revenue per license from original equipment manufacturer (OEM) licenses and
organizational license programs is lower than average revenue per license from
retail versions.  Likewise, product upgrades have lower prices than new
products.  Also, prices of integrated suites, such as Microsoft Office and
BackOffice, are less than the sum of the prices for the individual programs
included in these suites when such programs are licensed separately.  During
each of the three years, an increased percentage of products and programs
included elements that were billed but unearned and recognized ratably, such as
Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Office, maintenance, and other subscription models.
See accompanying notes to financial statements.

As noted above, the Company's business model continues to evolve from selling
packaged products to licensing organizational licenses and subscriptions.  The
Company's products are generally delivered to customers through a multi-tiered
channel of distributors and resellers, but the distribution model is also
changing for selected retail products that are now being shipped straight to
resellers and other selected products that are now being shipped straight to
customers.  Due to these changes in channel mechanics and the business model,
the risk of returns of product from distributors and resellers has declined.
Accordingly, the estimate for future product returns was reduced by $250 million
in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.

The Company changed the way it reports revenue and costs associated with product
support, consulting, MSN Internet access, and training and certification of
system integrators.  Amounts received from customers for these activities have
been classified as revenue in a manner more consistent with Microsoft's primary
businesses.  These amounts had been previously netted in sales and marketing
expenses, except for MSN access fees, which had been netted in research and
development expenses.  Direct costs of these activities are classified as cost
of revenue.  Prior financial statements and disclosures have been reclassified

                                       1
<PAGE>

for consistent presentation. Revenue from these activities was $578 million,
$778 million, and $1.06 billion in 1997, 1998, and 1999.

Microsoft also made two changes related to the ratable recognition of revenue
for a portion of its revenue for certain products.  A new accounting rule that
interprets American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement
of Position (SOP) 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, requires companies to use
the average sales price of each undelivered element of software arrangements.
Prior authoritative guidance allowed a comparison of the total price
differential between a licensed product sold through different channels of
distribution to derive the value of undelivered elements offered to customers
acquiring product from one channel but not the other.  Upon adoption of this new
rule in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, the percentages of the total
arrangement treated as unearned decreased.  This change in the timing of revenue
recognition reduced the amount of Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office sales
treated as unearned and increased the amount of revenue recognized upon
shipment.  Additionally, as part of the Company's long range planning process
and a review of product shipment cycles, it was determined that the life cycle
of Windows should be extended from two years to three years.  The net impact of
these changes was to increase reported revenue $80 million in the fourth quarter
of 1999.

Business Divisions. Microsoft has three major segments:  Windows Platforms;
Productivity Applications and Developer; and Consumer, Commerce, and Other.

Windows Platforms revenue was $4.92 billion, $6.28 billion, and $8.50 billion in
1997, 1998, and 1999.  Platform revenue is primarily licenses of PC operating
systems and business and enterprise server systems with client/server, Internet,
and intranet architectures.

The Company's principal PC operating systems are Windows 95, Windows 98, and
Windows NT(R) Workstation.  Windows 95 was released in August 1995, while its
successor, Windows 98, became available at the end of fiscal 1998.  Windows NT
Workstation version 4.0 was released in fiscal 1997.  Although the growth rate
of new PC shipments slowed, PC operating systems contributed to revenue growth
as shipments of new PCs preinstalled with such systems increased during the
three-year period.  Additionally, increased penetration of the higher value
Windows NT Workstation led to growth in all three years.

Windows NT Server is a comprehensive business and enterprise server operating
system, combining application, file and print, communication, and Web services.
Windows NT Server version 4.0 was released in fiscal 1997.  Revenue from Windows
NT Server increased strongly during each of the three years due to greater
corporate demand, particularly for intranet computing solutions.

Productivity Applications and Developer revenue was $5.62 billion, $7.04
billion, and $8.82 billion in 1997, 1998, and 1999.  Products include primarily
desktop applications, server applications, and software developer tools.

Microsoft Office integrated suites, including the Standard, Small Business,
Professional, and Premium Editions, are the Company's principal desktop
applications and a key driver of revenue growth.  Microsoft Office 97 was
released in fiscal 1997 and Microsoft Office 2000 was released at the end of
fiscal 1999.  The primary programs in Microsoft Office are the word processor
Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, and Microsoft Outlook(R) messaging
and collaboration client.  Various versions of Office, which are available for
the Windows and Macintosh operating systems, also include Microsoft Access
database management program, Microsoft PowerPoint(R) presentation graphics
program, Microsoft FrontPage(R) Web site creation and management program, or
other programs.  Revenue from stand-alone versions of Microsoft Excel, Word, and
PowerPoint continued to decrease as the sales mix shifted to integrated product
suites.

Server applications, based on Microsoft Windows NT Server, offer an enterprise-
wide distributed client/server, Internet, and intranet environment.  Products
include Microsoft Exchange Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and other server
applications in the Microsoft BackOffice family of products.  Microsoft Exchange
is an enterprise messaging and collaboration server while Microsoft SQL Server
is a scalable

                                       2
<PAGE>

database and data warehouse platform. Revenue from these products increased
strongly over the three-year period, albeit with slowing growth rates in 1998
and 1999.

Independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions developers
license tools such as the Microsoft Visual Studio(R) development system, which
includes the Microsoft Visual Basic(R) development system, to develop software
for the Windows operating systems and the Internet.  Revenue from developer
products increased moderately in 1997, was flat in 1998, and increased strongly
in 1999.

Although revenue was not significant, preinstallations of Windows CE by OEMs on
intelligent devices were strong in 1998 and 1999.

Consumer, Commerce, and Other revenue was $1.40 billion, $1.94 billion, and
$2.43 billion in 1997, 1998, and 1999.  This category of product revenue
includes learning and entertainment software; PC input devices; training and
certification fees; consulting; and the online services.  The Company's Internet
services include the MSN portal, MSN access, WebTV(R), and vertical properties
such as MSN Hotmail Web-based email service, Expedia.com(TM) travel site,
CarPoint car buying site, and MoneyCentral personal finance site.

Learning and entertainment revenue was relatively flat in all three years.
Mouse, gaming device, and keyboard sales increased in 1997 and 1998, but were
steady in 1999.  Training and certification fees from system integrators, along
with consulting services to large enterprise customers and technology solution
providers, increased strongly in all three years.  Revenue from MSN Internet
access fees and WebTV services increased due to higher subscriber levels.
Advertising revenue, although relatively small in amount, increased
exceptionally well in 1999 for the online portal and vertical properties.

Sales channels. Microsoft distributes its products primarily through OEM
licenses, organizational licenses, and retail packaged products.  OEM channel
revenue represents license fees from original equipment manufacturers who
preinstall Microsoft products, primarily on PCs.  Microsoft has three major
geographic sales and marketing organizations: the South Pacific and Americas
Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; and the Asia Region.  Sales
of organizational licenses and packaged products via these channels are
primarily to and through distributors and resellers.

OEM channel revenue was $3.49 billion in 1997, $4.72 billion in 1998, and $6.40
billion in 1999.  The primary source of OEM revenue is the licensing of desktop
operating systems, and OEM revenue is highly dependent on PC shipment volume.
Growth was also enhanced by increased penetration of higher-value Windows NT
Workstation licenses.

Revenue in the South Pacific and Americas Region was $4.39 billion, $5.57
billion, and $7.25 billion in 1997, 1998, and 1999.  Revenue in the Europe,
Middle East, and Africa Region was $2.77 billion, $3.50 billion, and $4.33
billion for the three years.  Growth rates have been lower in Europe than in
other geographic areas due to higher existing market shares and a faster shift
to licensing programs.  Asia Region revenue was $1.29 billion in 1997, $1.48
billion in 1998, and $1.78 billion in 1999.  After strong growth in prior years,
revenue was relatively flat in Japan and Southeast Asia in 1998 and the first
half of fiscal 1999 due to economic issues and weak currencies.

The Company's operating results are affected by foreign exchange rates.
Approximately 32%, 32%, and 29% of the Company's revenue was collected in
foreign currencies during 1997, 1998, and 1999.  Since a portion of local
currency revenue is hedged and much of the Company's international manufacturing
costs and operating expenses are also incurred in local currencies, the impact
of exchange rates is partially mitigated.

                                                              Operating Expenses
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Microsoft encourages broad-based employee ownership of Microsoft stock through
an employee stock option (ESO) program in which most employees are eligible to
participate.  Historically, exercise prices of grants of ESOs were struck at the
lowest price in the 30 days following July 1 for annual grants and the 30

                                       3
<PAGE>

days after the start date for new employees. In connection with this practice,
which is no longer employed, a charge of $217 million was recorded in the fourth
quarter for fiscal 1999 compensation expense, calculated under the provisions of
Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25 (APB 25). Charges related to ESO
compensation were reflected in 1999 operating expenses as follows (in millions):

               Cost of revenue               $ 44
               Research and development       105
               Sales and marketing             46
               General and administrative      22
                                             ----
               Total                         $217
                                             ====

Cost of revenue. Cost of revenue as a percent of revenue was 18.2% in 1997,
16.1% in 1998, and 14.3% in 1999.  The percentage decreases resulted primarily
from the trend in mix shift to OEM and organizational licenses.  The decrease
was also due to the shifts in mix to CD-ROMs (which carry lower cost of goods
than disks) and higher-margin Windows NT Server, other servers, and client
access licenses in the BackOffice product family.  Additionally, cost of revenue
in 1999 was positively impacted by a reduction in estimates of obsolete
inventory and other manufacturing costs of $67 million.  As discussed above, the
Company's business model continues to evolve toward licensing from sales of
packaged products through distribution channels.  Consequently, risks associated
with manufacturing and holding physical product have declined.

Research and development. Microsoft continued to invest heavily in the future by
funding research and development (R&D).  Expense increases in 1997, 1998, and
1999 resulted primarily from development staff headcount growth in many areas,
particularly Windows platforms, including PC operating systems, servers, and
Internet and intranet technologies.  R&D costs also increased for productivity
applications, development tools, and online services.

In 1998, the Company acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., an online service that
enables consumers to experience the Internet through their televisions via set-
top terminals.  Microsoft paid $425 million in stock and cash.  The accompanying
income statement reflects a one-time write-off of in-process technologies under
development by WebTV Networks of $296 million.

Sales and marketing. The increase in the absolute dollar amount of sales and
marketing expenses in the three-year period was due primarily to expanded
product-specific marketing programs, such as Office 97 in 1997, Windows 98 in
1998, and Office 2000 in 1999.  Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of
revenue decreased primarily due to moderate headcount growth.  Microsoft brand
advertising expenses rose slightly in 1998, but declined in 1999.

General and administrative. Increases in general and administrative expenses
were attributable to higher legal fees, litigation costs, and growth in the
number of people and computer systems necessary to support overall increases in
the scope of the Company's operations.

Other expenses. Other expenses include the recognition of Microsoft's share of
joint venture activities, including DreamWorks Interactive and the MSNBC
entities.

                               Investment Income, Gain on Sale, and Income Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investment income increased primarily as a result of a larger investment
portfolio generated by cash from operations in 1997, 1998, and 1999, coupled
with realized gains from the sale of certain bond and equity securities in 1999.

In fiscal 1999, Microsoft sold its Softimage, Inc. subsidiary to Avid
Technology, Inc. for a pretax gain of $160 million.

                                       4
<PAGE>

The effective income tax rate was 35.0% in 1997.  The effective income tax rate
increased to 36.9% in 1998 due to the nondeductible write-off of WebTV in-
process technologies.  Excluding the impact of the gain on the sale of
Softimage, Inc., the effective tax rate for fiscal 1999 was 35.0%.

                                                                      Net Income
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income as a percent of revenue increased in 1997, 1998, and 1999 due
primarily to the lower relative cost of revenue and sales and marketing
expenses, combined with greater investment income.

Financial Condition
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Company's cash and short-term investment portfolio totaled $17.24 billion at
June 30, 1999.  The portfolio is diversified among security types, industries,
and individual issuers.  Microsoft's investments are generally liquid and
investment grade.  The portfolio is invested predominantly in U.S. dollar
denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions in
anticipation of continued international expansion.  The portfolio is primarily
invested in short-term securities to minimize interest rate risk and facilitate
rapid deployment in the event of immediate cash needs.

Microsoft also invests in equities, primarily strategic technology companies.
The Company has made large-scale investments in access providers, including
cable, telephony, and wireless communications companies.  During 1999, the
Company purchased $5.0 billion of AT&T convertible preferred securities and
warrants, $600 million of Nextel Communications, Inc. common stock, $500 million
of NTL, Inc. convertible preferred stock, $330 million of United Pan-Europe
Communications common stock, and $200 million of Qwest Communications
International Inc. common stock.  In connection with AT&T's proposed merger with
MediaOne Group, Inc., the Company agreed to acquire MediaOne's interest in
Telewest Communications plc, a leading provider of cable television and
residential and business cable telephony services in the United Kingdom, subject
to certain regulatory approvals and other conditions.  During 1997, Microsoft
purchased $1.0 billion of Special Class A common stock and convertible preferred
stock of Comcast Corporation.  Microsoft also owns an interest in MCI WorldCom,
Inc.

Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) operate two MSNBC joint
ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel, and an interactive
online news service.  Microsoft is paying $220 million over a five-year period
that ends in 2001 for its interest in the cable venture and one-half of the
operational funding of both joint ventures.  Microsoft guarantees a portion of
MSNBC debt.

Microsoft has no material long-term debt and has $100 million of standby
multicurrency lines of credit to support foreign currency hedging and cash
management.  Stockholders' equity at June 30, 1999 was $28.44 billion.

Microsoft will continue to invest in sales, marketing, and product support
infrastructure.  Additionally, research and development activities will include
investments in existing and advanced areas of technology, including using cash
to acquire technology.  Additions to property and equipment will continue,
including new facilities and computer systems for R&D, sales and marketing,
support, and administrative staff.  Commitments for constructing new buildings
were $275 million on June 30, 1999.  Cash will also be used to fund ventures and
other strategic opportunities.

In addition, cash will be used to repurchase common stock to provide shares for
employee stock option and purchase plans.  The buyback program has not kept pace
with employee stock option grants or exercises.  Beginning in fiscal 1990,
Microsoft has repurchased 710 million common shares while 1.79 billion shares
were issued under the Company's employee stock option and purchase plans.  The
market value of all outstanding stock options was $69 billion as of June 30,
1999.  Microsoft enhances its repurchase program by selling put warrants.
During December 1996, Microsoft issued 12.5 million shares of 2.75% convertible
exchangeable preferred stock.  Net proceeds of $980 million were used to
repurchase common shares.  In

                                       5
<PAGE>

December 1999, each preferred share is convertible into common shares or an
equivalent amount of cash determined by a formula that provides a floor price of
$79.875 and a cap of $102.24 per preferred share, equivalent to $19.97 and
$25.56 per common share.

Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds
generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating requirements for
the next 12 months.  The Company's cash and short-term investments are available
for strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions, other potential large-scale
cash needs that may arise, and to fund an increased stock buyback program over
historical levels to reduce the dilutive impact of the Company's employee stock
option and purchase programs.

Microsoft has not paid cash dividends on its common stock.  The preferred stock
pays $2.196 per annum per share.

Issues and Uncertainties
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
While Microsoft management is optimistic about the Company's long-term
prospects, the following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be
considered in evaluating its growth outlook.

Rapid technological change and competition  Rapid change, uncertainty due to new
and emerging technologies, and fierce competition characterize the PC software
industry.  The pace of change continues to accelerate, including "open source"
software, new computing devices, new microprocessor architectures, the Internet,
and Web-based computing models.

Future initiatives  The Company continues to expand its efforts to provide and
support mission-critical systems to large enterprises.  Microsoft is also
developing a Windows Web-centric platform and simpler and new natural interfaces
for PC users.  Additionally, Microsoft is committed to providing technologies,
operating systems, and online services for all types of computing devices,
including PCs, televisions, and intelligent appliances.  Future revenue from
these initiatives may not duplicate historical revenue growth rates.

PC growth rates  The underlying PC unit growth rate and percentage of new PCs
acquired as replacement units directly impact the Company's software revenue
growth.  Additionally, inexpensive PCs and specialty devices create less demand
for Microsoft software than traditional PCs. The PC shipment growth rate may
continue to decrease, the replacement rate may continue to increase, and
limited-use PC growth may increase, reducing future software revenue
opportunity.

Product ship schedules  Potential delays in new product releases, including
seminal products such as Windows 2000, could dampen revenue growth rates and
cause operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing and distribution
logistics and relationships with customers, OEMs, and independent software
vendors.

Customer acceptance  While the Company performs extensive usability and beta
testing of new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates
ultimately dictate the success of development and marketing efforts.

Prices  Future product prices may decrease from historical levels, depending on
competitive market and cost factors.  European and Asian software prices vary by
country and are generally higher than in the United States to cover localization
costs and higher costs of distribution.  Increased global license agreements,
European monetary unification, or other factors could erode such price uplifts
in the future.

Saturation  Product upgrades, which enable users to upgrade from earlier
versions of the Company's products or from competitors' products, have lower
prices and margins than new products.  Also, penetration of the Company's
desktop applications into large organizations is becoming saturated.  These
factors are likely to depress future desktop applications revenue growth.

Organizational licenses  Average revenue per unit from organizational license
programs is lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions shipped
through the finished goods channels.  Unit sales under licensing programs may
continue to increase.

Earnings process  An increasingly higher percentage of the Company's revenue is
subject to ratable recognition, which impacts the timing of revenue and earnings
recognition.  This policy may be required

                                       6
<PAGE>

for additional products, depending on specific license terms and conditions.
Also, maintenance and other subscription programs may continue to increase in
popularity, particularly with organizations.

Channel mix  Average revenue per license is lower from OEM licenses than from
retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs of operations in
the OEM channel.  An increasingly higher percentage of revenue was achieved
through the OEM channel during 1998 and 1999.

Cost of revenue  Decreases in cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue in 1998
and 1999 were due to general shifts from packaged products to OEM and
organizational licenses, from lower-margin products to higher-margin products,
and from disks to CD-ROMs.  These shifts may not continue.  Direct costs of
product support; services such as consulting and training and certification of
system integrators; and online operations comprise the majority of cost of
revenue and are not likely to decrease.  The trend of declining cost of revenue
as a percentage of revenue is unlikely to continue in 2000.

Employee compensation  Microsoft employees currently receive salaries, incentive
bonuses, other benefits, and stock options.  Fiscal 2000 salaries will be
enhanced, with the mid-point salary range raised from the 50th to the 65th
percentile of competitive positions.  Additionally, new government regulations,
poor stock price performance, or other factors could diminish the value of the
option program to current and prospective employees and force the Company into
more of a cash compensation model.  Had the Company paid employees in cash the
equivalent of the Black-Scholes value of options vested in 1997, 1998, and 1999,
the incremental pretax expense would have been approximately $620 million, $850
million, and $1.10 billion.

Long-term R&D investment cycle  Developing and localizing software is expensive,
and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle.
The Company plans to continue significant investments in software research and
development, including online initiatives.  Significant revenue from these
product opportunities is not anticipated for a number of years.  Total spending
for R&D in 2000 will increase over spending in 1999.

Sales and marketing investments The Company's plans for 2000 include accelerated
investments in its sales groups, customer satisfaction, and marketing
activities.

International operations  Much of the Company's operations are conducted outside
of the United States, and a large percentage of sales, costs of manufacturing,
and marketing is transacted in local currencies.  As a result, the Company's
international results of operations are subject to local economic environments
and foreign exchange rate fluctuations.

Market risk  The Company is exposed to foreign currency, interest rate, and
equity price risks.  A portion of these risks is hedged, but fluctuations could
impact the Company's results of operations and financial position.  The Company
hedges the exposure of accounts receivable and a portion of anticipated revenue
to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts.  The Company
monitors its foreign currency exposures daily to ensure the overall
effectiveness of its foreign currency hedge positions.  Principal currencies
hedged include the Japanese yen, British pound, German mark, French franc, and
Canadian dollar.  Fixed income securities are subject to interest rate risk.
The portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment grade
securities to minimize credit risk.  The Company routinely hedges its exposure
to interest rate risk with options in the event of a catastrophic increase in
interest rates.  Many securities held in the Company's equity and other
investments portfolio are subject to equity price risk.  The Company hedges its
equity price risk on certain highly volatile equity securities with options.

The Company used a value-at-risk (VAR) model to estimate and quantify its market
risks.  The VAR model is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value,
but is used as a risk estimation and management tool.  Assumptions applied to
the VAR model at June 30, 1999 include the following: normal market conditions;
Monte Carlo modeling with 10,000 simulated market price paths; a 97.5%
confidence interval; and a 20-day estimated loss in fair value for each market
risk category.  Accordingly, 97.5% of the time the estimated 20-day loss in fair
value would be nominal for foreign currency denominated investments and accounts
receivable, and would not exceed $95 million for interest-sensitive investments
or $1.38 billion for equity securities.

                                       7
<PAGE>

Previously, the Company used a sensitivity analysis to estimate interest rate
and equity price risk.  A 10% increase in interest rates would have reduced the
carrying value of interest-sensitive securities by $128 million and $101 million
at June 30, 1998 and 1999.  A 10% decrease in market values would have reduced
the carrying value of the Company's equity securities by $300 million and $1.37
billion at June 30, 1998 and 1999.

Intellectual property rights  Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual
property rights, but unlicensed copying of software represents a loss of revenue
to the Company.  While this adversely affects U.S. revenue, revenue loss is even
more significant outside of the United States, particularly in countries where
laws are less protective of intellectual property rights.  Throughout the world,
Microsoft actively educates consumers on the benefits of licensing genuine
products and educates lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected.  However, continued efforts may not
affect revenue positively.

Litigation  Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and
copyrights occurs in the PC software industry.  In addition, there are
government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate
legal risks.

Year 2000  The Year 2000 presents potential concerns for business and consumer
computing.  In addition to the well-known calculation problems with the use of
2-digit date formats as the year changes from 1999 to 2000, the Year 2000 is a
special case leap year and in many organizations using older technology, dates
were used for special programmatic functions.  The problem exists for many kinds
of software and hardware, including mainframes, mini computers, PCs, and
embedded systems.  The consequences of this issue may include systems failures
and business process interruption.

Microsoft has tested more than 3000 versions/languages of its products.  The
vast majority of these tested products are Year 2000 compliant, as defined by
Microsoft.  There are a small number of older products that are identified as
being non-compliant, and Microsoft will provide recommendations regarding these
products.  Not all versions of products or all products will be tested.  All
Year 2000 software updates, resources, and tools are available to customers at
no charge from the Microsoft Year 2000 Portal Page or Microsoft Year 2000
Resource CD.

Current information needed to evaluate the impact of the Year 2000 on
organizational and home computing environments is available at the Microsoft
Year 2000 Portal Page (www.microsoft.com/year2000) and the Microsoft Year 2000
Resource CD, which is released on a quarterly basis.  The Web site and Microsoft
Year 2000 Resource CD detail specific Year 2000 information concerning Microsoft
products and technologies for large organizations.  The detailed information
available on the Web site and Microsoft Year 2000 Resource CD is presented to
assist information technology (IT) professionals in planning their transition to
the Year 2000.  The Microsoft Year 2000 Portal Page also contains information
for small business and home PC users, including in-depth product information,
answers to frequently asked questions, and links to other Year 2000 sites.

Variability of definitions of "compliance" with the Year 2000 and of different
combinations of software, firmware, and hardware will likely lead to lawsuits
against the Company.  The outcome of such lawsuits and the impact on the Company
are not estimable at this time.

The Year 2000 issue also affects the Company's internal systems, including IT
and non-IT systems.  Microsoft has assessed the readiness of its mission-
critical systems for handling the Year 2000.  Although testing and remediation
of all systems have not been completed, management currently believes that all
mission critical-systems will be compliant by the Year 2000 and that the cost to
address the issues is not material.  Nevertheless, Microsoft is creating
contingency plans for certain internal systems.

Microsoft is addressing the effect this issue will have on its third-party
supply chain and has undertaken steps to formulate a system of working with key
third parties to understand their ability to continue providing services and
products through the change to 2000.  Microsoft is working directly with its key
vendors, distributors, and resellers to avoid material business interruptions in
2000. Contingency plans are being developed where practicable for these key
third parties.

                                       8
<PAGE>

Resolving Year 2000 issues is a worldwide phenomenon that is absorbing a
substantial portion of IT budgets and attention. Certain industry analysts
believe the Year 2000 issue will accelerate the trend toward distributed PC-
based systems from mainframe systems, while others believe a majority of IT
resources will be devoted to fixing older mainframe software in lieu of large-
scale transitions to systems based on software such as that developed by
Microsoft. The impact of the Year 2000 on future Microsoft revenue is difficult
to discern, but is a risk to be considered in evaluating the future growth of
the Company.

Future growth rate The revenue growth rate in 2000 may not approach the level
attained in prior years. As discussed previously, operating expenses are
expected to increase in 2000. Because of the fixed nature of a significant
portion of such expenses, coupled with the possibility of slower revenue growth,
operating margins in 2000 may decrease from those in 1999.

                                       9
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.4
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 13.4

                             Microsoft Corporation

                             Financial Statements


           Income Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1999

           Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June 30, 1999

           Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1998 and 1999

           Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June 30,
                1999

           Notes to Financial Statements

           Independent Auditors' Report
<PAGE>

Income Statements
(In millions, except earnings per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                      1997          1998         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>          <C>
Revenue                                                              $11,936       $15,262      $19,747
Operating expenses:
  Cost of revenue                                                      2,170         2,460        2,814
  Research and development                                             1,863         2,601        2,970
  Acquired in-process technology                                          --           296           --
  Sales and marketing                                                  2,411         2,828        3,231
  General and administrative                                             362           433          689
  Other expenses                                                         259           230          115
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating expenses                                           7,065         8,848        9,819
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                                       4,871         6,414        9,928
Investment income                                                        443           703        1,803
Gain on sale of Softimage, Inc.                                           --            --          160
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                                             5,314         7,117       11,891
Provision for income taxes                                             1,860         2,627        4,106
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                           $ 3,454       $ 4,490      $ 7,785
========================================================================================================
Earnings per share (1):
  Basic                                                              $  0.72       $  0.92      $  1.54
========================================================================================================
  Diluted                                                            $  0.66       $  0.84      $  1.42
========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Earnings per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split
     in March 1999.

See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>

Cash Flows Statements
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                   1997            1998            1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>             <C>             <C>
Operations
  Net income                                                     $  3,454        $  4,490        $  7,785
  Depreciation and amortization                                       557           1,024           1,010
  Write-off of acquired in-process technology                          --             296              --
  Gain on sale of Softimage, Inc.                                      --              --            (160)
  Unearned revenue                                                  1,601           3,268           5,877
  Recognition of unearned revenue from prior periods                 (743)         (1,798)         (4,526)
  Other current liabilities                                           321             208             966
  Accounts receivable                                                (336)           (520)           (687)
  Other current assets                                               (165)            (88)           (235)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net cash from operations                                        4,689           6,880          10,030
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financing
  Common stock issued                                                 744             959           1,350
  Common stock repurchased                                         (3,101)         (2,468)         (2,950)
  Put warrant proceeds                                                 95             538             766
  Preferred stock issued                                              980              --              --
  Preferred stock dividends                                           (15)            (28)            (28)
  Stock option income tax benefits                                    796           1,553           3,107
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net cash from (used for) financing                               (501)            554           2,245
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investing
  Additions to property and equipment                                (499)           (656)           (583)
  Cash portion of WebTV purchase price                                 --            (190)             --
  Cash proceeds from sale of Softimage, Inc.                           --              --              79
  Purchases of investments                                        (18,216)        (19,114)        (36,441)
  Maturities of investments                                         1,874           1,890           4,674
  Sales of investments                                             13,752          10,798          21,080
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Net cash used for investing                                    (3,089)         (7,272)        (11,191)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net change in cash and equivalents                                  1,099             162           1,084
Effect of exchange rates on cash and equivalents                        6             (29)             52
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year                             2,601           3,706           3,839
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and equivalents, end of year                                   3,706           3,839           4,975
Short-term investments                                              5,260          10,088          12,261
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and short-term investments                                  $  8,966        $ 13,927        $ 17,236
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>

Balance Sheets
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                                                              1998          1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                               <C>           <C>
Assets
Current assets:
  Cash and short-term investments                                                 $13,927       $17,236
  Accounts receivable                                                               1,460         2,245
  Other                                                                               502           752
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current assets                                                           15,889        20,233
Property and equipment                                                              1,505         1,611
Equity and other investments                                                        4,703        14,372
Other assets                                                                          260           940
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total assets                                                                $22,357       $37,156
=======================================================================================================

Liabilities and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable                                                                $   759       $   874
  Accrued compensation                                                                359           396
  Income taxes payable                                                                915         1,607
  Unearned revenue                                                                  2,888         4,239
  Other                                                                               809         1,602
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total current liabilities                                                       5,730         8,718
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
  Convertible preferred stock--shares authorized 100;
    shares issued and outstanding 13                                                  980           980
  Common stock and paid-in capital--shares authorized 12,000;
    shares issued and outstanding 4,940 and 5,109                                   8,025        13,844
  Retained earnings, including other comprehensive income
    of $666 and $1,787                                                              7,622        13,614
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total stockholders' equity                                                     16,627        28,438
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                  $22,357       $37,156
=======================================================================================================
</TABLE>

  See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>

Stockholders' Equity Statements
(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                                  1997           1998           1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>            <C>            <C>
Convertible preferred stock
  Balance, beginning of year                                          --        $   980        $   980
  Convertible preferred stock issued                             $   980             --             --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                             980            980            980
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common stock and paid-in capital
  Balance, beginning of year                                       2,924          4,509          8,025
  Common stock issued                                                744          1,262          2,338
  Common stock repurchased                                           (91)          (165)           (64)
  Structured repurchases price differential                           --            328           (328)
  Proceeds from sale of put warrants                                  95            538            766
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                          45             --             --
  Stock option income tax benefits                                   792          1,553          3,107
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                           4,509          8,025         13,844
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Retained earnings
  Balance, beginning of year                                       3,984          5,288          7,622
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net income                                                       3,454          4,490          7,785
  Other comprehensive income:
    Net unrealized investment gains                                  280            627          1,052
    Translation adjustments and other                                  5           (124)            69
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Comprehensive income                                         3,739          4,993          8,906
  Preferred stock dividends                                          (15)           (28)           (28)
  Common stock repurchased                                        (3,010)        (2,631)        (2,886)
  Reclassification of put warrant obligation                         590             --             --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Balance, end of year                                           5,288          7,622         13,614
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total stockholders' equity                                 $10,777        $16,627        $28,438
======================================================================================================
</TABLE>

     See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>

Notes to Financial Statements

Accounting Policies

Accounting principles.  The financial statements and accompanying notes are
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Principles of consolidation.  The financial statements include the accounts of
Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated. Investments in 50% owned joint ventures are
accounted for using the equity method; the Company's share of joint ventures'
activities is reflected in other expenses.

Estimates and assumptions.  Preparing financial statements requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include provisions for returns and
bad debts and the length of product life cycles and buildings' lives. Actual
results may differ from these estimates.

Foreign currencies.  Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are
translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to other
comprehensive income. Revenue and expenses are translated at average rates of
exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses on foreign currency
transactions are included in other expenses.

Revenue recognition.  Revenue is recognized when earned. The Company's revenue
recognition policies are in compliance with all applicable accounting
regulations, including American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, and SOP
98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, With Respect to Certain Transactions. Revenue
from products licensed to original equipment manufacturers is recorded when OEMs
ship licensed products while revenue from certain license programs is recorded
when the software has been delivered and the customer is invoiced. Revenue from
packaged product sales to and through distributors and resellers is recorded
when related products are shipped. Maintenance and subscription revenue is
recognized ratably over the contract period. Revenue attributable to undelivered
elements, including technical support and Internet browser technologies, is
based on the average sales price of those elements and is recognized ratably on
a straight-line basis over the product's life cycle. When the revenue
recognition criteria required for distributor and reseller arrangements are not
met, revenue is recognized as payments are received. Costs related to
insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for certain products,
are accrued. Provisions are recorded for returns and bad debts.

Cost of revenue.  Cost of revenue includes direct costs to produce and
distribute product and direct costs to provide online services, consulting,
product support, and training and certification of system integrators.

Research and development.  Research and development costs are expensed as
incurred. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 86, Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed, does
not materially affect the Company.

Income taxes.  Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes,
plus the provision for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international
subsidiaries. Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax
returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of this
difference is reported as deferred income taxes. Tax credits are
<PAGE>

accounted for as a reduction of tax expense in the year in which the credits
reduce taxes payable.

Stock split.  During March 1999, outstanding shares of common stock were split
two-for-one. All share and per share amounts have been restated.

Financial instruments.  The Company considers all liquid interest-earning
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to
be cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three
months and six years from the purchase date. All cash and short-term investments
are classified as available for sale and are recorded at market using the
specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses are reflected in
other comprehensive income. Cost approximates market for all classifications of
cash and short-term investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses were
not material.

Equity and other investments include debt and equity instruments. Debt
securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified as available for
sale and are recorded at market using the specific identification method.
Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in other comprehensive income. All
other investments, excluding joint venture arrangements, are recorded at cost.

Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge certain investments,
international revenue, accounts receivable, and interest rate risks, and are,
therefore, held primarily for purposes other than trading. These instruments may
involve elements of credit and market risk in excess of the amounts recognized
in the financial statements. The Company monitors its positions and the credit
quality of counter parties, consisting primarily of major financial
institutions, and does not anticipate nonperformance by any counter party.

During June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS
137, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities-Deferral of
the Effective Date of FASB Statement 133. The Statement defers the effective
date of SFAS 133 to fiscal 2001. Management is evaluating SFAS 133 and does not
believe that adoption of the Statement will have a material impact on its
financial statements.

Property and equipment.  Property and equipment is stated at cost and
depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated
life of the asset or the lease term, ranging from one to 15 years.

Reclassifications.  The Company changed the way it reports revenue and costs
associated with product support, consulting, MSN Internet access, and
certification and training of system integrators. Amounts received from
customers for these activities have been classified as revenue in a manner more
consistent with Microsoft's primary businesses. Direct costs of these activities
are classified as cost of revenue. Prior financial statements have been
reclassified for consistent presentation. Certain other reclassifications have
also been made for consistent presentation.

Unearned Revenue

A portion of Microsoft's revenue is earned ratably over the product life cycle
or, in the case of subscriptions, over the period of the license agreement.

End users receive certain elements of the Company's products over a period of
time. These elements include browser technologies and technical support.
Consequently, Microsoft's earned revenue reflects the recognition of the fair
value of these elements over the product's life cycle. Upon adoption of SOP 98-9
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company was required to change the
methodology of attributing the fair value to undelivered elements. The
percentages of undelivered elements in relation to the total arrangement
decreased, reducing the amount of Windows and Office revenue treated as
unearned, and increasing the amount of revenue recognized upon shipment. The
percentage of revenue recognized ratably decreased from a range of 20% to 35% to
a range of approximately 15% to 25% of Windows desktop operating systems. For
desktop applications, the percentage decreased from approximately 20% to a range
of approximately 10% to 20%. The ranges depend on the terms and conditions of
the license and prices of the elements. The impact on fiscal 1999 was to
increase reported revenue $170 million. In addition, the Company extended the
life cycle of Windows from two to three years based upon
<PAGE>

management's review of product shipment cycles. The impact on fiscal 1999 was to
decrease reported revenue $90 million. Product life cycles are currently
estimated at 18 months for desktop applications. The Company also sells
subscriptions to certain products via maintenance and certain organizational
license agreements. At June 30, 1999, Windows platforms products unearned
revenue was $2.17 billion and unearned revenue associated with productivity
applications and developer products totaled $1.96 billion. Unearned revenue for
other miscellaneous programs totaled $116 million at June 30, 1999.

Financial Risks

The Company's cash and short-term investment portfolio is diversified and
consists primarily of investment grade securities. Investments are held with
high-quality financial institutions, government and government agencies, and
corporations, thereby reducing credit risk concentrations. Interest rate
fluctuations impact the carrying value of the portfolio. The Company routinely
hedges the portfolio's return with options in the event of a catastrophic
increase in interest rates. At June 30, 1999, the notional amount of the options
outstanding was $4.0 billion. The fair value and premiums paid for the options
were not material. Much of the Company's equity security portfolio is highly
volatile, so certain positions are hedged.

Finished goods sales to international customers in Europe, Japan, Canada, and
Australia are primarily billed in local currencies. Payment cycles are
relatively short, generally less than 90 days. Certain international
manufacturing and operational costs are disbursed in local currencies. Local
currency cash balances in excess of short-term operating needs are generally
converted into U.S. dollar cash and short-term investments on receipt. Although
foreign exchange rate fluctuations generally do not create a risk of material
balance sheet gains or losses, the Company hedges a portion of accounts
receivable balances denominated in local currencies, primarily with purchased
options. At June 30, 1999, the notional amount of options outstanding was $662
million. The fair value and premiums paid for the options were not material.

Foreign exchange rates affect the translated results of operations of the
Company's foreign subsidiaries. The Company hedges a portion of planned
international revenue with purchased options. The notional amount of the options
outstanding at June 30, 1999 was $2.25 billion. The fair value and premiums paid
for the options were not material.

At June 30, 1998 and 1999, approximately 40% and 50% of accounts receivable
represented amounts due from 10 customers. One customer accounted for
approximately 12%, 8%, and 11% of revenue in 1997, 1998, and 1999.

Microsoft lends certain fixed income and equity securities to enhance investment
income. Adequate collateral and/or security interest is determined based upon
the underlying security and the credit worthiness of the borrower.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Cash and Short-Term Investments
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                        1998        1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>
Cash and equivalents:
  Cash                                      $   195     $   635
  Commercial paper                            2,771       3,805
  Certificates of deposit                       419         522
  Money market preferreds                       454          13
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Cash and equivalents                      3,839       4,975
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term investments:
  Commercial paper                              868       1,026
  U.S. government and agency securities       3,511       3,592
  Corporate notes and bonds                   3,998       6,996
  Municipal securities                        1,361         247
  Certificates of deposit                       350         400
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Short-term investments                   10,088      12,261
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
      Cash and short-term investments       $13,927     $17,236
===============================================================
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Property and Equipment
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                        1998        1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>
Land                                        $   183     $   158
Buildings                                     1,259       1,347
Computer equipment                            1,182       1,433
Other                                           428         578
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Property and equipment--at cost             3,052       3,516
Accumulated depreciation                     (1,547)     (1,905)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Property and equipment--net             $ 1,505     $ 1,611
===============================================================
</TABLE>

During 1997, 1998, and 1999, depreciation expense, of which the majority related
to computer equipment, was $353 million, $528 million, and $483 million;
disposals were not material.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Equity and Other Investments
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                           Net
                                                        Cost            Unrealized      Recorded
June 30, 1999                                          Basis              Gains          Basis
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>              <C>             <C>
Debt securities recorded at market, maturing:
  Within one year                                       $   682            $    8        $   690
  Between 10 and 15 years                                   533                (3)           530
  Beyond 15 years (AT&T)                                  4,731               347          5,078
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Debt securities recorded at market                    5,946               352          6,298
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity securities recorded at market:
  Comcast Corporation common stock                          500             1,394          1,894
  MCI Worldcom, Inc. common stock                            14             1,088          1,102
  Other                                                     849             1,102          1,951
  Unrealized hedge loss                                      --              (785)          (785)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Equity securities recorded at market                  1,363             2,799          4,162
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity securities and instruments recorded at cost:
  Nextel Communications, Inc. common stock                  600                --            600
  Comcast Corporation convertible preferred stock           555                --            555
  NTL, Inc. convertible preferred stock                     511                --            511
  Other                                                   2,179                --          2,179
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Equity securities and instruments recorded at
     cost                                                 3,845                --          3,845
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other investments                                            67                --             67
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Equity and other investments                      $11,221            $3,151        $14,372
================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Debt securities include corporate and government notes and bonds and derivative
securities. Debt securities maturing beyond 15 years are composed entirely of
AT&T 5% convertible preferred debt with a contractual maturity of 30 years. The
debt is convertible into AT&T common stock on or after December 1, 2000, or may
be redeemed by AT&T upon satisfaction of certain conditions on or after June 1,
2002. Unrealized gains on equity securities recorded at market were $1.4 billion
on June 30, 1998. Equity securities and instruments recorded at cost include
primarily preferred stock, common stock, and warrants that are restricted or not
publicly traded. At June 30, 1998 and 1999, the estimated fair value of these
investments was $2.4 billion and $6.1 billion, based on publicly available
market information or other estimates determined by management. The Company
hedges the risk of significant market declines on certain highly volatile equity
securities with options. The options are recorded at market, consistent with the
underlying equity securities. At June 30, 1999, the notional amount of the
options outstanding was $2.1 billion; the fair value was $1.0 billion; and
premiums paid for the options were not material. Realized gains and losses of
equity and other investments in 1997 and 1998 were not material; realized gains
were $623 million and losses were not material in 1999.

Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes consisted of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                       1997         1998         1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>          <C>          <C>
Current taxes:
  U.S. and state                       $1,710       $2,518       $4,027
  International                           412          526          281
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Current taxes                       2,122        3,044        4,308
Deferred taxes                           (262)        (417)        (202)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
      Provision for income taxes       $1,860       $2,627       $4,106
=======================================================================
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                   1997        1998        1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>         <C>        <C>
U.S.                               $3,775      $5,072     $10,649
International                       1,539       2,045       1,242
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Income before income taxes       $5,314      $7,117     $11,891
=================================================================
</TABLE>

The effective income tax rate was 35.0% in 1997 and increased to 36.9% in 1998
due to the nondeductible write-off of WebTV in-process technologies. In 1999,
the effective tax rate was 35.0%, excluding the impact of the gain on the sale
of Softimage, Inc. The components of the differences between the U.S. statutory
tax rate and the Company's effective tax rate were not significant.

Income taxes payable were:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
June 30                                        1998         1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>          <C>
Deferred income tax assets:
  Revenue items                              $   713      $ 1,145
  Expense items                                  613          648
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred income tax assets                 1,326        1,793
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred income tax liabilities:
  Unrealized gain on investments                (479)      (1,046)
  International earnings                        (373)        (647)
  Other                                          (26)         (16)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Deferred income tax liabilities             (878)      (1,709)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Current income tax liabilities                (1,363)      (1,691)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Income taxes payable                   $  (915)     $(1,607)
=================================================================
</TABLE>

Income taxes have been settled with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for all
years through 1989. The IRS has assessed taxes for 1990 and 1991, which the
Company is contesting in U.S. Tax Court. The IRS is examining the Company's U.S.
income tax returns for 1992 through 1994. Management believes any related
adjustments that might be required will not be material to the financial
statements. Income taxes paid were $1.1 billion in 1997, $1.1 billion in 1998,
and $874 million in 1999.

Convertible Preferred Stock

During 1996, Microsoft issued 12.5 million shares of 2.75% convertible
exchangeable principal-protected preferred stock. Dividends are payable
quarterly in arrears. Preferred stockholders have preference over common
stockholders in dividends and liquidation rights. In December 1999, each
preferred share is convertible into common shares or an equivalent amount of
cash determined by a formula that provides a floor price of $79.875 and a cap of
$102.24 per preferred share, equivalent to $19.97 and $25.56 per common share.
Net proceeds of $980 million were used to repurchase common shares.

Common Stock
Issued and outstanding. Shares of common stock outstanding were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                   1997         1998         1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>
Balance, beginning of year          4,776        4,816        4,940
Issued                                188          202          213
Repurchased                          (148)         (78)         (44)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Balance, end of year              4,816        4,940        5,109
===================================================================
</TABLE>

Repurchase program. The Company repurchases its common stock in the open market
to provide shares for issuing to employees under stock option and stock purchase
plans. The Company's Board of Directors authorized continuation of this program
in 2000.
<PAGE>

During 1998, the Company executed two forward settlement structured repurchase
agreements with an independent third party totaling 42 million shares of stock
and paid cash for a portion of the purchase price. In 1999, the Company settled
the agreements by returning 28 million shares of stock, based upon the stock
price on the date of settlement. The timing and method of settlement were at the
discretion of the Company. The differential between the cash paid and the price
of Microsoft common stock on the date of the agreement was originally reflected
in common stock and paid-in capital.

Put Warrants

To enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sells put warrants to
independent third parties. These put warrants entitle the holders to sell shares
of Microsoft common stock to the Company on certain dates at specified prices.
On June 30, 1999, 163 million warrants were outstanding with strike prices
ranging from $59 to $65 per share. The put warrants expire between September
1999 and March 2002. The outstanding put warrants permit a net-share settlement
at the Company's option and do not result in a put warrant liability on the
balance sheet.

Employee Stock and Savings Plans

Employee stock purchase plan  The Company has an employee stock purchase plan
for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares of the Company's common stock
may be purchased at six-month intervals at 85% of the lower of the fair market
value on the first or the last day of each six-month period. Employees may
purchase shares having a value not exceeding 10% of their gross compensation
during an offering period. During 1997, 1998, and 1999, employees purchased 5.6
million, 4.4 million, and 2.7 million shares at average prices of $14.91,
$27.21, and $52.59 per share. At June 30, 1999, 70.9 million shares were
reserved for future issuance.

Savings plan  The Company has a savings plan, which qualifies under Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Participating employees may contribute up
to 15% of their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company
contributes fifty cents for each dollar a participant contributes, with a
maximum contribution of 3% of a participant's earnings. Matching contributions
were $28 million, $39 million, and $49 million in 1997, 1998, and 1999.

Stock option plans  The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers,
and employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options.
Options granted prior to 1995 generally vest over four and one-half years and
expire 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted during and after 1995
generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date
of grant, while certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire
after 10 years. At June 30, 1999, options for 406 million shares were vested and
998 million shares were available for future grants under the plans.

Stock options outstanding were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Price per Share
                                           ---------------------------
                                                             Weighted
                                 Shares          Range        Average
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  <S>                            <C>       <C>               <C>
   Balance, June 30, 1996          952    $ 0.28 - $14.74       $ 5.52
     Granted                       220     13.83 -  29.80        14.58
     Exercised                    (180)     0.28 -  14.74         3.32
     Canceled                      (36)     4.25 -  24.29         9.71
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balance, June 30, 1997          956      0.56 -  29.80         7.86
     Granted                       138     16.56 -  43.63        31.28
     Exercised                    (176)     0.56 -  31.24         4.64
     Canceled                      (25)     4.25 -  41.94        14.69
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balance, June 30, 1998          893      0.56 -  43.63        11.94
     Granted                        78     45.59 -  83.28        54.62
     Exercised                    (175)     0.56 -  53.63         6.29
     Canceled                      (30)     4.25 -  74.28        21.06
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balance, June 30, 1999          766      0.56 -  83.28        17.28
======================================================================
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics of outstanding stock
options at June 30, 1999 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         Outstanding Options                      Exercisable Options
                  ---------------------------------------   ------------------------------
    Range of                Remaining    Weighted Average              Weighted Average
 Exercise Prices  Shares   Life (Years)        Price        Shares           Price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>               <C>      <C>           <C>                <C>        <C>
  $0.56-$5.97      242         2.9            $ 4.31         230            $ 4.24
   5.98-13.62      158         3.9             10.85          89             10.62
  13.63-29.80      173         4.7             14.92          66             14.67
  29.81-43.62      117         5.5             32.06          21             31.83
  43.63-83.28       76         6.2             55.04          --                --
==========================================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25, Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees, to account for stock option and employee stock purchase
plans. Historically, exercise prices of grants of ESOs were struck at the lowest
price in the 30 days following July 1 for annual grants and the 30 days after
the start date for new employees. In connection with this practice, which is no
longer employed, a charge of $217 million was recorded in the fourth quarter for
fiscal 1999 compensation expense.

An alternative method of accounting for stock options is SFAS 123, Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation. Under SFAS 123, employee stock options are valued
at grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and compensation cost is
recognized ratably over the vesting period. Had compensation cost for the
Company's stock option and employee stock purchase plans been determined based
on the Black-Scholes value at the grant dates for awards, pro forma income
statements for 1997, 1998, and 1999 would have been as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Year Ended June 30                                         1997                        1998                        1999
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  Reported     Pro forma      Reported     Pro forma      Reported     Pro forma
                                                  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>
Revenue                                              $11,936       $11,936       $15,262       $15,262       $19,747       $19,747
Operating expenses:
  Cost of revenue                                      2,170         2,290         2,460         2,628         2,814         3,024
  Research and development                             1,863         2,168         2,601         3,023         2,970         3,504
  Acquired in-process technology                          --            --           296           296            --            --
  Sales and marketing                                  2,411         2,539         2,828         3,003         3,231         3,448
  General and administrative                             362           424           433           520           689           822
  Other expenses                                         259           259           230           230           115           115
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating expenses                           7,065         7,680         8,848         9,700         9,819        10,913
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                       4,871         4,256         6,414         5,562         9,928         8,834
Investment income                                        443           443           703           703         1,803         1,803
Gain on sale of Softimage, Inc.                           --            --            --            --           160           160
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                             5,314         4,699         7,117         6,265        11,891        10,797
Provision for income taxes                             1,860         1,646         2,627         2,325         4,106         3,723
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                             3,454         3,053         4,490         3,940         7,785         7,074
Preferred stock dividends                                 15            15            28            28            28            28
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available for common shareholders         $ 3,439       $ 3,038       $ 4,462       $ 3,912       $ 7,757       $ 7,046
==================================================================================================================================
Diluted earnings per share                           $  0.66       $  0.58       $  0.84       $  0.73       $  1.42       $  1.29
==================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The pro forma disclosures in the previous table include the amortization of the
fair value of all options vested during 1997, 1998, and 1999, regardless of the
grant date. If only options granted after 1996 were valued, as prescribed by
SFAS 123, pro forma net income would have
<PAGE>

been $3,179 million, $4,019 million, and $7,109 million, and earnings per share
would have been $0.61, $0.75, and $1.30 for 1997, 1998, and 1999.

The weighted average Black-Scholes value of options granted under the stock
option plans during 1997, 1998, and 1999 was $5.86, $11.81, and $20.90. Value
was estimated using an expected life of five years, no dividends, volatility of
 .32 in 1999 and 1998 and .30 in 1997, and risk-free interest rates of 6.5%,
5.7%, and 4.9% in 1997, 1998, and 1999.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the
basis of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus the
effect of outstanding preferred shares using the "if-converted" method, assumed
net-share settlement of common stock structured repurchases, and outstanding
stock options using the "treasury stock" method.

The components of basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended June 30                                             1997       1998        1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>        <C>         <C>
Net income                                                   $3,454     $4,490      $7,785
Preferred stock dividends                                        15         28          28
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available for common shareholders                 $3,439     $4,462      $7,757
==========================================================================================

Weighted average outstanding shares of common stock           4,782      4,864       5,028
Dilutive effect of:
  Common stock under structured repurchases                      --          6          13
  Preferred stock                                                26         34          16
  Employee stock options                                        436        458         425
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common stock and common stock equivalents                     5,244      5,362       5,482
==========================================================================================

Earnings per share:
  Basic                                                      $ 0.72     $ 0.92      $ 1.54
==========================================================================================
  Diluted                                                    $ 0.66     $ 0.84      $ 1.42
==========================================================================================
</TABLE>

Operational Transactions

In August 1997, Microsoft acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., an online service that
enables consumers to experience the Internet through their televisions via set-
top terminals based on proprietary technologies. A director of the Company owned
10% of WebTV. Microsoft paid $425 million in stock and cash for WebTV. The
Company recorded an in-process technologies write-off of $296 million in the
first quarter of fiscal 1998.

In August 1998, the Company sold a wholly-owned subsidiary, Softimage, Inc. to
Avid Technology, Inc. and recorded a pretax gain of $160 million. As part of a
transitional service agreement, Microsoft agreed to make certain development
tools and management systems available to Avid for use in the Softimage
business.

In November 1998, Microsoft acquired LinkExchange, Inc., a leading provider of
online marketing services to Web site owners and small and medium-sized
businesses. Microsoft paid $265 million in stock. During fiscal 1999, Microsoft
also acquired several other entities primarily providing online technologies and
services. The Company did not record significant in-process technology write-
offs in connection with these transactions.

In July 1999, Ticketmaster Online CitySearch, Inc. agreed to purchase certain
online properties of Sidewalk in exchange for stock and warrants at a price to
be determined upon closing.

Commitments

The Company has operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and
support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was
$92 million, $95 million, and $135 million in 1997, 1998, and 1999. Future
minimum rental commitments under
<PAGE>

noncancelable leases, in millions of dollars, are: 2000, $133; 2001, $121; 2002,
$97; 2003, $83; 2004, $75; and thereafter, $194.

In connection with the Company's communications infrastructure and the operation
of online services, Microsoft has certain communication usage commitments.
Future related minimum commitments, in millions of dollars, are: 2000, $125 and
2001, $22. Also, Microsoft has committed to certain volumes of outsourced
telephone support and manufacturing of packaged product and has committed $275
million for constructing new buildings.

During 1996, Microsoft and National Broadcasting Company (NBC) established two
MSNBC joint ventures: a 24-hour cable news and information channel and an
interactive online news service. Microsoft agreed to pay $220 million over a
five-year period for its interest in the cable venture, to pay one-half of
operational funding of both joint ventures for a multiyear period, and to
guarantee a portion of MSNBC debt.

Contingencies

On October 7, 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. brought suit against Microsoft in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Sun's complaint
alleges several claims against Microsoft, all related to the parties'
relationship under a March 11, 1996 Technology License and Distribution
Agreement (Agreement) concerning certain Java programming language technology.
The Complaint seeks: a preliminary and permanent injunction against Microsoft
distributing certain products with the Java Compatibility logo, and against
distributing Internet Explorer 4.0 browser technology unless certain alleged
obligations are met; an order compelling Microsoft to perform certain alleged
obligations; an accounting; termination of the Agreement; and an award of
damages, including compensatory, exemplary, and punitive damages, and liquidated
damages of $35 million for the alleged source code disclosure.

On March 24, 1998, the court entered an order enjoining Microsoft from using the
Java Compatibility logo on Internet Explorer 4.0 and the Microsoft Software
Developers Kit (SDK) for Java 2.0. Microsoft has taken steps to fully comply
with the order.

On November 17, 1998, the court entered an order granting Sun's request for a
preliminary injunction, holding that Sun had established a likelihood of success
on its copyright infringement claims, because Microsoft's use of Sun's
technology in its products was beyond the scope of the parties' license
agreement. The court ordered Microsoft to make certain changes in its products
that include Sun's Java technology and to make certain changes in its Java
software development tools. The court also enjoined Microsoft from entering into
any licensing agreements that were conditioned on exclusive use of Microsoft's
Java Virtual Machine. Microsoft appealed that ruling to the 9th Circuit on
December 16, 1998. Oral argument on that appeal was held on June 16, 1999. In
the interim, Microsoft is complying with the ruling and has not sought a stay of
the injunction pending appeal. On December 18, 1998, Microsoft filed a motion
requesting an extension of the 90-day compliance period for certain Microsoft
products, which was granted in part in January 1999. Microsoft filed a motion on
February 5, 1999, seeking clarification of the court's order that Microsoft
would not be prevented from engaging in independent development of Java
technology under the order. The court granted that motion. On July 23, 1999 the
court also granted Microsoft's motion to increase the bond on the preliminary
injunction from $15 million to $35 million.

On January 22, 1999, Microsoft and Sun filed a series of summary judgment
motions regarding the interpretation of the contract and other issues. On May
20, 1999, the court issued tentative rulings on three of the motions. In the
preliminary rulings, the court (1) granted Sun's motion for summary judgment
that prior versions of Internet Explorer 4.0, Windows 98, Windows NT, Visual J++
(R) 6.0 development system, and the SDK for Java
<PAGE>

infringe Sun's copyrights, because they contain Sun's program code but do not
pass Sun's compatibility tests and, therefore, Microsoft's use of Sun's
technology is outside the scope of the Agreement and unlicensed; (2) granted
Microsoft's motion that the Agreement authorizes Microsoft to distribute
independently developed Java Technology that is not subject to the compatibility
obligations in the Agreement; and (3) denied Sun's motion for summary judgment
on the meaning of certain provisions of the Agreement, tentatively adopting
Microsoft's interpretation that Sun is required to deliver certain new Java
Technology, called "Supplemental Java Classes," in working order on Microsoft's
then existing and commercially distributed virtual machine. On June 24, 1999,
the court heard oral argument on the three tentative rulings. No final orders
have been issued. At the hearing, the court also directed the parties to
identify other pending summary judgment motions that the court should next
consider. There are no other hearing or trial dates set.

On May 18, 1998, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)
and a group of 20 state Attorneys General filed two antitrust cases against
Microsoft in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The DOJ
complaint alleges violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. The DOJ
complaint seeks declaratory relief as to the violations it asserts and
preliminary and permanent injunctive relief regarding: the inclusion of Internet
browsing software (or other software products) as part of Windows; the terms of
agreements regarding non-Microsoft Internet browsing software (or other software
products); taking or threatening "action adverse" in consequence of a person's
failure to license or distribute Microsoft Internet browsing software (or other
software product) or distributing competing products or cooperating with the
government; and restrictions on the screens, boot-up sequence, or functions of
Microsoft's operating system products. The state Attorneys General allege
largely the same claims and various pendent state claims. The states seek
declaratory relief and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief similar to
that sought by the DOJ, together with statutory penalties under the state law
claims. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to
the full text of the complaints and other papers on file in those actions, case
numbers 98-1232 and 98-1233.

On May 22, 1998, Judge Jackson consolidated the two actions. The judge granted
Microsoft's motion for summary judgment as to the states' monopoly leverage
claim and permitted the remaining claims to proceed to trial. Trial began on
October 19, 1998. Microsoft believes the claims are without merit and is
defending against them vigorously. In other ongoing investigations, the DOJ and
several state Attorneys General have requested information from Microsoft
concerning various issues.

Caldera, Inc. filed a lawsuit against Microsoft in July 1996. It alleges Sherman
Act violations relating to Microsoft licensing practices of the MS-DOS(R)
operating system and Windows in the late 80s and early 90s --essentially the
same complaints that resulted in the 1994 DOJ consent decree. Caldera claims to
own the rights of Novell, Inc. and Digital Research, Inc. relating to DR-DOS and
Novell DOS products. It also asserts a claim that Windows 95 is a technological
tie of Windows and MS-DOS. Trial is scheduled for January 2000. Some partial
summary judgment motions are pending. Microsoft believes the claims are without
merit and is vigorously defending the case.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting a non-public investigation
into the Company's accounting reserve practices. Microsoft is also subject to
various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of
business.

Management currently believes that resolving these matters will not have a
material adverse impact on the Company's financial position or its results of
operations.
<PAGE>

Segment Information

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Productivity      Consumer,
                                            Windows        Applications    Commerce, and     Reconciling
Year Ended June 30                         Platforms       and Developer       Other           Amounts         Consolidated
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>             <C>             <C>               <C>               <C>
1997
Revenue                                       $5,213           $5,992        $ 1,129           $  (398)           $11,936
===========================================================================================================================
1998
Revenue                                       $6,236           $7,458        $ 1,765           $  (197)           $15,262
Operating income                               3,661            4,824         (1,050)           (1,021)             6,414
===========================================================================================================================
1999
Revenue                                       $8,590           $8,686        $ 1,784           $   687            $19,747
Operating income                               6,007            5,568         (1,072)             (575)             9,928
===========================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company's organizational structure and fundamental approach to business
reflect the needs of its customers. As such, Microsoft has three major segments:
Windows Platforms; Productivity Applications and Developer; and Consumer,
Commerce, and Other. Windows Platforms includes the Business and Enterprise
Division, which is primarily responsible for Windows NT and developing Windows
2000. Windows Platforms also includes the Consumer Windows Division, which
oversees Windows 98 and Windows 95. Productivity Applications and Developer
includes the Business Productivity Division, which is responsible for developing
and marketing desktop applications, server applications, and developer tools.
Consumer, Commerce, and Other products and services include primarily learning,
entertainment, and PC input device products; WebTV and PC online access; and
portal and other Internet services. Assets of the segment groups are not
relevant for management of the businesses nor for disclosure. In addition, it is
not practicable to discern operating income for 1997 for the above segments due
to previous internal reorganizations.

Segment information is presented in accordance with SFAS 131, Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. This standard is based on a
management approach, which requires segmentation based upon the Company's
internal organization and disclosure of revenue and operating income based upon
internal accounting methods. The Company's financial reporting systems present
various data for management to run the business, including profit and loss
statements (P&Ls) prepared on a basis not consistent with generally accepted
accounting principles. Reconciling items include certain elements of unearned
revenue, the treatment of certain channel inventory amounts and estimates, and
revenue from product support, consulting, and training and certification of
system integrators. Additionally, the internal P&Ls use accelerated methods of
depreciation and amortization, but do not reflect the charge for the ESO
exercise price methodology previously employed by the Company.

Revenue attributable to U.S. operations includes shipments to customers in the
United States, licensing to OEMs and certain multinational organizations, and
exports of finished goods, primarily to Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Revenue
from U.S operations totaled $7.8 billion, $10.1 billion, and $13.7 billion in
1997, 1998, and 1999. Revenue from outside the United States, excluding
licensing to OEMs and certain multinational organizations and U.S. exports,
totaled $4.1 billion, $5.2 billion, and $5.9 billion in 1997, 1998, and 1999.

Long-lived assets totaled $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion in the United States in
1998 and 1999 and $287 million and $154 million in other countries in 1998 and
1999.
<PAGE>

Independent Auditors' Report
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Microsoft Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries as of June 30, 1998 and 1999, and the related statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders' equity for each of the three years ended June 30,
1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries as of
June 30, 1998 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years ended June 30, 1999 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.

Deloitte & Touche LLP
Seattle, Washington
July 19, 1999

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      Exhibit 21
Subsidiaries

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399

Microsoft FSC Corporation. (U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS)
Microsoft Investments, Inc. (NEVADA)
Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited (IRELAND)
Microsoft Licensing, Inc. (NEVADA)
MSLI L.L.C. (NEVADA)
Microsoft Operations Pte Ltd. (SINGAPORE)
Microsoft Regional Sales Corporation (NEVADA-Singapore Branch)
Microsoft Puerto Rico, Inc. (Manufacturing) (DELAWARE)
The Microsoft Network L.L.C. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft Treasury, Inc (NEVADA)
GraceMac Corporation (NEVADA)
Microsoft de Argentina S.A.
Microsoft Pty. Limited (AUSTRALIA)
Microsoft Gesellschaft m.b.H. (AUSTRIA)
Microsoft N.V. (BELGIUM)
Microsoft Informatica Limitada (BRAZIL)
Microsoft Bulgaria EOOD
Microsoft Canada Co.
Microsoft Chile S.A.
Microsoft Colombia Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft de Centroamerica S.A. (COSTA RICA)
Microsoft Hrvatska d.o.o. (CROATIA)
Microsoft s.r.o. (CZECH REPUBLIC)
Microsoft Danmark ApS (DENMARK)
Microsoft Dominicana, S.A. (DOMINICAN REPUBLIC)
Microsoft Del Ecuador S.A.
Microsoft El Salvador S.A. de C.V.
Microsoft Egypt L.L.C.
Microsoft Oy (FINLAND)
Microsoft France S.A.R.L.
Microsoft G.m.b.H. (GERMANY)
Microsoft Hellas S.A. (GREECE)
Microsoft de Guatemala, S.A.
Microsoft Hong Kong Limited
Microsoft Hungary Kft.
Microsoft Corporation (India) Private Limited
Microsoft India (R&D) Private Limited
PT. Microsoft Indonesia
Microsoft Israel Ltd.
Microsoft SRL (ITALY)
Microsoft Cote d'Ivoire (IVORY COAST)
Microsoft Company, Limited (JAPAN)
Microsoft Asia Ltd (NEVADA-JAPAN BRANCH)
Microsoft Product Development Ltd (NEVADA-JAPAN BRANCH)
East Africa Software Limited (KENYA)
Microsoft CH (KOREA)
Microsoft Kuwait Representative Office
SIA Microsoft Latvija
Microsoft Corporation Lebanon Representative Office
Microsoft (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Microsoft Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Microsoft Indian Ocean Islands Limited (MAURITIUS)
<PAGE>

Microsoft Maroc S.A.R.L. (MOROCCO)
Microsoft B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft Manufacturing B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft International B.V. (THE NETHERLANDS)
Microsoft New Zealand Limited
Microsoft Norge AS (NORWAY)
Microsoft de Panama, S.A.
Microsoft (China) Company Limited (THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA)
Microsoft Peru, S.R.L.
Microsoft Philippines, Inc.
Microsoft sp. z.o.o. (POLAND)
MSFT-Software Para Microcomputadores, LDA (PORTUGAL)
Microsoft Caribbean, Inc. (DELAWARE)
Microsoft Romania SRL
Microsoft ZAO (RUSSIA)
Moscow Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited (Representative Office )(RUSSIA)
Microsoft Arabia Limited (SAUDI ARABIA, 60% owned)
Microsoft Singapore Pte Ltd.
Microsoft Slovakia s.r.o.
Microsoft d.o.o., Ljubljana (SLOVENIA)
Microsoft (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited (SOUTH AFRICA)
Microsoft Iberica S.R.L. (SPAIN)
Microsoft Aktiebolag (SWEDEN)
Microsoft AG (SWITZERLAND)
Microsoft Taiwan Corporation
Microsoft (Thailand) Limited
Microsoft Bilgisayar Yazilim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi (TURKEY)
Microsoft Corporation (UNITED ARAB EMIRATES)
Microsoft Limited (UNITED KINGDOM)
Microsoft Research Limited (UNITED KINGDOM)
Microsoft Uruguay, S.A.
Microsoft Venezuela, S.A.
The Resident Representative Office of MICROSOFT Corporation in Hanoi (VIETNAM)
Microsoft Corporation, Zimbabwe Liaison Office
WebTV Networks, Inc. (California)
DreamWorks Interactive L.L.C. (WASHINGTON, 50% owned)
MSBET L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSFDC L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSFDC International, Inc. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSNBC Cable, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
MSNBC Interactive News, L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
Ninemsn Pty. Limited (AUSTRALIA)
WebTV Networks K.K. (JAPAN)
Microsoft HomeAdvisor, LLC (NEVADA)
Transpoint L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 95% owned by MSFDC L.L.C.)
Wireless Knowledge L.L.C. (DELAWARE, 50% owned)
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S CONSENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit 23.

Independent Auditors' Consent

Microsoft Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Numbers
33-06335, 33-18381, 33-25575, 33-33695, and 33-37623 (Microsoft Corporation 1981
Stock Option Plan), 33-44302, 33-51583, and 333-06298 (Microsoft Corporation
1991 Stock Option Plan), 33-37622 (Microsoft Corporation 1991 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan), 33-10732 (Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan), 33-36498
(Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors), 33-45617
(Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors), 333-
16665 (Microsoft Corporation 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan), 333-61729
(Microsoft Corporation 1998 Special Stock Award Program), 333-75243 (Microsoft
Corporation Savings Plus 401(k) Plan) and 33-06298 of Microsoft Corporation on
Forms S-8 and 33-29823, 33-34794, 33-36347, 33-46958, 33-49496, 33-56039, 33-
57277, 33-57899, 33-58867, 33-62725, 33-63471, 33-64870, 333-00857, 333-01177,
333-02759, 333-05961, 333-8081, 333-12441, 333-17143, 333-18055, 333-18195, 333-
23621, 333-31803,333-37841, 333-41387, 333-43449, 333-45989, 333-52377, 333-
61507, 333-65813, 333-69027, 333-75389, 333-79461 of Microsoft Corporation on
Forms S-3, and 333-26411 of Microsoft Corporation on Form S-4 of our report
dated July 19, 1999 appearing in and incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation for the year ended June 30, 1999.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Seattle, Washington
September 28, 1999
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
ACCOMPANYING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE
TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1999
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-01-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1999
<CASH>                                          17,236
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                    2,245
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                          0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                20,233
<PP&E>                                           3,516
<DEPRECIATION>                                   1,905
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  37,156
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            8,718
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                        980
<COMMON>                                        13,844
<OTHER-SE>                                      13,614
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    37,156
<SALES>                                         19,747
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                19,747
<CGS>                                            2,814
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    2,814
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 7,005
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                 11,891
<INCOME-TAX>                                     4,106
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              7,785
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     7,785
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.54
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.42


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
