-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JilZ5DY8FMRueLQeXExEFWTmCmuuuqoSU3f1xm+H88D0jL66R7Bh0pavwr7Lh218
 rukMcRHsJDNf8MW3VgCyNQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000320193-97-000002.txt : 19970221
<SEC-HEADER>0000320193-97-000002.hdr.sgml : 19970221
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000320193-97-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19961227
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970210
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLE COMPUTER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000320193
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS [3571]
		IRS NUMBER:				942404110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10030
		FILM NUMBER:		97521233

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 INFINITE LOOP
		CITY:			CUPERTINO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95014
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4089961010
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-Q
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>


________________________________________________________________
 			   UNITED STATES
		SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
			Washington, D. C. 20549

			     Form 10-Q
(Mark One)
[X]	Quarterly report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of 
 	the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

For the quarterly period ended December 27, 1996  OR

[   ]	Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of 
	the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from ___________ to ___________

		    Commission file number 0-10030

			  APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
	(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

	CALIFORNIA			     94-2404110
 [State or other jurisdiction	     [I.R.S. Employer Identification No.]
 of incorporation or organization]	

	1 Infinite Loop	
     Cupertino California			  95014
[Address of principal executive offices]	[Zip Code]

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 996-1010

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes	[X]	No	[   ]

	
 124,669,324 shares of Common Stock Issued and Outstanding as of 
January 31, 1997

 <PAGE>


PART I. FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements

APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>		
			THREE MONTHS ENDED	
		
			December 27,	December 29,
              		1996   		1995   
              
		
<S>			<C>		<C>
Net sales		$ 2,129  	$ 3,148 
		
Costs and expenses:		
		
Cost of sales		  1,732		  2,673
Research and development    149             153
Selling, general and                    
 administrative	             372	    441
     	                  2,253	          3,267
		   
Operating loss	           (124)	   (119)
Interest and other 
income (expense), net	      4	             10
		
Loss before benefit from 
income taxes	           (120)	   (109)
Benefit from income taxes    --	            (40)
		 
Net loss 	         $ (120)    	 $  (69) 
		
Loss per common share	 $(0.96)    	 $(0.56)   
		
Cash dividends paid
 per common share	 $   --         $   .12     
		
Common shares used in 
 the calculations of
 loss per share
 (in thousands)	        124,532          122,994
    	

</TABLE>		









See accompanying notes.

				2
<PAGE>

			APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

		    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

			     ASSETS
 			 (In millions)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>		
	  		December 27,	September 27,
            			1996		1996
(Unaudited)	
             
<S>				<C>		<C>
Current assets:		
		
Cash and cash equivalents   $ 1,174	     $ 1,552    
Short-term investments		633		 193   
Accounts receivable, net 
 of allowance for doubtful
accounts of $92  ($91 at 
September 27, 1996)	      1,492	       1,496

Inventories:		
Purchased parts			176		 213
Work in process			 24		  43
Finished goods	  		288	         406       
				488		 662
		
Deferred tax assets		324		 342
Other current assets	        308	         270
		
Total current assets	      4,419	       4,515
		
Property, plant, and equipment:		
Land and buildings		484		480
Machinery and equipment		543		544
Office furniture and equipment	122		136
Leasehold improvements	        178	        188       
	 		      1,327	      1,348
		
Accumulated depreciation 
and amortization	      (734)	       (750)    
		
Net property, plant,
 and equipment	               593	        598
		
Other assets	               260	        251
		
	                   $ 5,272	    $ 5,364
		 
</TABLE>		





			See accompanying notes.

				  3
<PAGE>

			  APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

		CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)

		 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (Dollars in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>		
			December 27, 	September 27, 
            			1996		1996
(Unaudited)	
             
<S>				<C>		<C>
Current liabilities:		
		
Notes payable to banks	   $    180        $    186
Accounts payable		820		791
Accrued compensation and 
employee benefits		112		120
Accrued marketing and 
distribution			363		257
Accrued warranty and related	157		181
Accrued restructuring costs	105		117
Other current liabilities	307	        351
		
Total current liabilities     2,044	      2,003
		
Long-term debt			950		949
Deferred tax liabilities	336		354
		
Shareholders' equity:		
Common stock, no par value;
320,000,000 shares authorized; 
124,585,025 shares issued
and outstanding at December 
27, 1996 (124,496,972 shares 
at September 27, 1996)	        442		439



Retained earnings	      1,514	      1,634
Other	                        (14)	        (15)
		
  Total shareholders' equit   1,942	      2,058
		
	    		    $ 5,272	    $ 5,364
</TABLE>		
		












			See accompanying notes.

				  4
<PAGE>

			 APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

	     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH 
                          FLOWS  (Unaudited)
                            (In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>			
	                             THREE MONTHS ENDED		
		
	                   		 December 27,	December 29,
            			    		1996		1995
            
<S>	 					<C>		<C>
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning 
of the period	 			  $   1,552       $     756    
		
Operating:		
		
Net loss				      (120)	       (69)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to cash 		
generated by operating activities:		
Depreciation and amortization			25	        42
Net book value of property, plant,
 and equipment retirements			 2		 1
Changes in assets and liabilities: 		
   Accounts receivable				 4	       (13)
   Inventories				       174	      (172)
   Deferred tax assets				18	       (51)
   Other current assets   	               (38)	        57
   Accounts payable	 			29	       266 
   Other current liabilities			18		78
   Deferred tax liabilities	       	       (18)	        48
Cash generated by operating activities	        94	       187   
		
Investing:		
		
Purchase of short-term investments	      (542)	     (244)
Proceeds from sale of short-term 
investments				       102   	      164
Purchase of property, plant, and equipment     (20)	      (31)
Other	    				       (10)	      (36)
Cash used for investing activities	      (470)	     (147)
		
Financing:		
		
Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings	(6)	       37
Increase in long-term borrowings		 1		1
Increases in common stock, net of related
 tax benefits 					 3		5
Cash dividends	    			        --            (15)
Cash generated by (used for) financing
 activities	  			        (2)	       28   
		
Total cash generated (used)	   	      (378)    	       68
		
Cash and cash equivalents,
 end of the period			 $   1,174   	$     824   
</TABLE>		


			See accompanying notes.

				  5
<PAGE> 


APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Unaudited)

1.	Interim information is unaudited; however, in the opinion of the 
Company's management, all adjustments necessary for a fair 
statement of interim results have been included. All adjustments 
are of a normal recurring nature unless specified in a separate 
note included in these Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The results for interim periods are not necessarily 
indicative of results to be expected for the entire year. These 
financial statements and notes should be read in conjunction with 
the Company's annual consolidated financial statements and the 
notes thereto for the fiscal year ended September 27, 1996, 
included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
September 27, 1996 (the "1996 Form 10-K").

2.	In the second quarter of 1996, the Company announced and began 
to implement a restructuring plan aimed at reducing costs and 
restoring profitability to the Company's operations. The 
restructuring plan was necessitated by decreased demand for 
Company products and the Company's adoption of a new 
strategic direction. The restructuring actions under this plan that 
the Company has taken and intends to take consist primarily of 
terminating approximately 1,500 full-time employees (down 
from an initial planned termination of approximately 2,800), 
approximately 900 of whom have been terminated from plan 
inception through December 27, 1996, excluding employees who 
were hired by SCI Systems, Inc. and MCI Systemhouse, the 
purchasers of the Company's Fountain, Colorado manufacturing 
facility and the Napa, California data center facility, respectively;
canceling or vacating certain facility leases as a result of these 
employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings and 
equipment to be sold as a result of downsizing operations and 
outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling 
contracts as a result of terminating eWorld(trademark), Apple's 
on-line service. These actions resulted in an initial charge of 
$207 million. The charge was adjusted downward by $28 million 
in the fourth quarter of 1996, primarily as a result of greater than 
expected voluntary terminations, which led to fewer than planned 
involuntary terminations, as well as lower than expected costs to 
cancel or vacate certain facility leases, partially offset by greater 
than expected costs to cancel certain contracts and to write down 
certain operating assets sold or to be sold.  The restructuring 
actions have resulted in cash expenditures of $66 million and 
noncash asset write-downs of $8 million from plan inception 
through December 27, 1996. The Company expects that the 
remaining $105 million accrued balance at December 27, 1996, 
will result in cash expenditures of approximately $50 million 
over the next twelve months and approximately $9 million 
thereafter. The Company expects that most of the contemplated 
restructuring actions related to the plan implemented in the 
second quarter of 1996 will be completed within the next six 
months and will be financed through current working capital and 
continued short-term borrowings. 














				6
<PAGE> 

The following table depicts the restructuring activity from 
September 27, 1996 to December 27, 1996: (In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>			
Category			 Balance at		   Balance at
				September 27,		  December 27,
					1996	Spending          1996
	
<S>					<C>	   <C>	         <C>
Payments to employees 
involuntarily terminated (C)		$33	    $6           $27
Payments on canceled or vacated 
facility leases (C)			 15	     3	          12
Write-down of operating assets 
to be sold (N)				 47 	     1	          46
Payments on canceled contracts (C)       22	     2	          20
				       $117	   $12	        $105
</TABLE>

C: Cash; N: Noncash

	The Company recently announced that supplemental 
restructuring actions, including significant headcount reductions, 
will be necessary to meet the foregoing objectives of the 1996 
restructuring plan. The Company expects to recognize a charge 
for the estimated costs of those actions when the details of the 
related supplemental plan are announced later in the second 
quarter.

3.	On February 4, 1997, the Company acquired all of the 
outstanding shares of NeXT Software, Inc. ("NeXT"). NeXT, 
headquartered in Redwood City, California, develops, markets and 
supports software that enables customers to easily and quickly 
implement business applications on the Internet/World Wide 
Web, intranets and enterprise-wide client/server networks. The 
comprehensive purchase price, which is comprised of $325 
million of cash; the issuance of 1.5 million shares of the 
Company's common stock; the issuance of approximately 1.8 
million options to purchase the Company's common stock; the 
assumption of approximately $55 million of net monetary 
liabilities; and approximately $5 million of closing and related 
costs, is expected to be approximately $430 million. The 
comprehensive purchase price is expected to require cash 
expenditures of approximately $385 million, substantially all of 
which will be expended in the second quarter. The acquisition 
will be treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. The 
Company expects that approximately 75% of the comprehensive 
purchase price will be expensed as in-process research and 
development in the second quarter. 

4.	The information set forth in Item 1 of Part II hereof is hereby 
incorporated by reference.  










				   7
<PAGE> 

Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the 
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information is 
based on the Company's fiscal calendar.

(Tabular information: Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>						
	    	     First     First		First	 Fourth
Results of  	    Quarter   Quarter  Change  Quarter	Quarter  Change
Operations	     1997      1996		1997	  1996	
<S>		     <C>	<C>        <C>	     <C>     <C>     <C>
Net sales	     $ 2,129   $ 3,148    (32%)    $ 2,129  $ 2,321  (8%)
Gross margin	     $   397   $   475    (16%)    $   397  $   511 (22%)
  Percentage of  
  net sales	       18.6%     15.1%		     18.6%     22.0%	
Research and
 Development	     $   149   $   153	  (3%)	  $   149   $   146    2%
  Percentage of
  net sales	        7.0%	  4.9%		      7.0%     6.3%	
Selling, General and
 Administrative	     $   372   $   441   (16%)	  $   372   $   359    4%
  Percentage of 
 net sales	       17.5%     14.0%	             17.5%     15.5%	
Restructuring costs  $  --     $   --	   --	  $    --   $  (28)	NM
  Percentage of net 
   sales		--         --		       --      (1.2%)	
Interest and Other
Income(Expense), net $    4    $   10	 (60%)	  $      4  $     6    (33%)
Net income (loss)    $ (120)   $  (69)	 (74%)	  $   (120) $    25   (580%)
Earnings (loss)
  per share	     $(0.96)   $(0.56)	 (71%)	  $   (0.96)$  0.20   (580%)
</TABLE>						
NM: Not meaningful.

Overview

During the first quarter of 1997, the Company continued to experience 
declines in net sales, units shipped and share of the personal computer 
market. This continued decline in demand and the resulting operating 
loss, coupled with intense price competition throughout the industry, 
has led to the Company's announcement that supplemental restructuring 
actions, including significant headcount reductions,  will be necessary 
in order to reduce costs and return the Company to sustainable 
profitability. The details of those actions are expected to be announced 
later in the second quarter. The Company has also acquired NeXT. The 
Company plans to develop and market a new operating system ("OS") 
based on its Mac OS and NeXT software technologies.

Net Sales
Q1 97 compared with Q1 96
Net sales decreased 32% in the first quarter of 1997 compared with the 
same period of 1996. Total Macintosh computer unit sales and 
peripheral unit sales decreased 29% and 27%, respectively, in the first 
quarter of 1997, compared with the same period of 1996, as a result of a 
decline in worldwide demand for most product families, especially the 
Performa(registered trademark) line of consumer-oriented products, 
which the Company believes was due principally to customer concerns 
regarding the Company's strategic direction, financial condition, and 
future prospects, and to competitive pressures in the marketplace. In 
addition, Macintosh unit sales were negatively affected as a result of the 
Company's inability to fulfill all purchase orders of 
PowerBook(registered trademark) and Power Macintosh(registered 
trademark) products due to product transition constraints on 
manufacturing and the unavailability of sufficient quantities of certain 
components. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit 
decreased 10% in the first quarter of 1997
				8
<PAGE> 

compared with the same period of 1996, primarily due to continued 
pricing actions, including rebates, across most product lines in order to 
stimulate demand. The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product 
increased 12% in the first quarter of 1997 compared with the same 
period of 1996, as a result of a shift in mix toward higher priced 
products, partially offset by continued pricing actions, including 
rebates, across most product lines in order to stimulate demand.

International net sales represented 56% of total net sales in the first 
quarter of 1997 compared with 51% in the same period of 1996. 
International net sales declined 25% in the first quarter of 1997 
compared with the same period of 1996. Net sales in European markets 
decreased during the first quarter of 1997 compared with the same period 
in 1996, as a result of decreases in Macintosh and peripheral unit sales, 
partially offset by an increase in the average aggregate revenue per 
peripheral unit. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit 
remained constant in the first quarter of 1997 compared with the same 
period of 1996. Net sales in Japan decreased during the first quarter of 
1997, compared with the same period in 1996, as a result of decreases 
in Macintosh and peripheral unit sales and the average aggregate revenue 
per Macintosh unit, slightly offset by an increase in the average 
aggregate revenue per peripheral unit.  

Domestic net sales declined 40% in the first quarter of 1997, over the 
comparable period of 1996, due to decreases in unit sales of Macintosh 
computers and peripheral products and the average aggregate revenue per 
Macintosh unit, slightly offset by an increase in the average aggregate 
revenue per peripheral unit.

According to an industry source, in the first quarter of 1997 compared 
with the comparable period of 1996, the Company's share of the 
worldwide and U.S. personal computer markets declined to 4.3% from 
7.0% and to 5.2% from 9.4%, respectively. In addition, the Company 
believes that its licensees' share of the worldwide personal computer 
market increased to approximately 0.5% from approximately 0.1%.

Q1 97 compared with Q4 96
Net sales decreased 8% in the first quarter of 1997 compared with the 
fourth quarter of 1996. Total Macintosh computer unit sales decreased 
by less than 1% in the first quarter of 1997 compared with the prior 
quarter as a result of a decline in unit sales of entry-level and 
PowerBook products, substantially offset by an increase in unit sales of 
Performa and Power Macintosh products.  PowerBook unit sales were 
negatively affected as a result of the Company's inability to fulfill all 
purchase orders due to product transition constraints on manufacturing.  
In addition, although Performa unit sales increased compared with the 
fourth quarter of 1996, they were substantially lower than the Company 
expected for the holiday buying season.  Unit sales of peripheral 
products increased 11% in the first quarter of 1997 compared with the 
fourth quarter of 1996. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh 
and peripheral unit decreased 11% and 2%, respectively, in the first 
quarter of 1997 compared with the fourth quarter of 1996, primarily due 
to continued pricing actions, including rebates, taken on most product 
lines in order to stimulate demand.  The average revenue per Macintosh 
unit and per peripheral unit will remain under significant downward 
pressure due to a variety of factors, including industrywide pricing 
pressures, increased competition, and the need to stimulate demand for 
the Company's products. 

International net sales represented 56% of total net sales in the first 
quarter of 1997, compared with 47% in the fourth quarter of 1996. 
International net sales increased 9% in the first quarter of 1997 
compared with the fourth quarter of 1996. Net sales in European 
markets increased during the first quarter of 1997 compared with the 
fourth quarter of 1996, as a result of increases in Macintosh and 
peripheral unit sales and average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit, 
slightly offset by a decrease in the average aggregate revenue per 
peripheral unit.  Net sales in Japan decreased during the first quarter of 
1997 compared with the fourth quarter of 1996, as a result of decreases 
in Macintosh unit sales and average aggregate revenue per Macintosh 
and peripheral unit, partially offset by an increase in peripheral unit 
sales over the prior quarter. 
				9
<PAGE> 

Domestic net sales declined 24% in the first quarter of 1997 compared 
with the prior quarter, due to decreases in Macintosh unit sales and the 
average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit, slightly offset by 
increases in peripheral unit sales and the average aggregate revenue per 
peripheral unit.

According to an industry source, in the first quarter of 1997 compared 
with the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company's share of the worldwide 
and U.S. personal computer markets declined to 4.3% from 5.3%, and 
to 5.2% from 7.2%, respectively. In addition, the Company believes 
that its licensees' share of the worldwide personal computer market 
increased to approximately 0.5% from approximately 0.2%.

In general, the Company's resellers purchase products on an as-needed 
basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates 
depending on changing market conditions. Unfilled orders ("backlog") 
can be, and often are, canceled at will. The Company attempts to fill 
orders on the requested delivery schedules. The Company's backlog was 
approximately $454 million at January 31, 1997 and consisted 
primarily of the Company's PowerBook and PowerMacintosh products. 

In the Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at 
any particular time is not necessarily a meaningful indication of its 
future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases in 
anticipation of or immediately following introduction of new products 
because of over-ordering by dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog 
often is reduced sharply once dealers and customers believe they can 
obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, as well as other 
factors affecting the Company's backlog, backlog should not be 
considered a reliable indicator of the Company's ability to achieve any 
particular level of revenue or financial performance. 

The Company believes that net sales will be below the level of the 
prior year's comparable periods through at least the fourth quarter of 
1997, if not longer. In addition, the Company believes that net sales in 
the second quarter of 1997 will be below the level of the first quarter of 
1997. 

Gross Margin
Gross margin represents the difference between the Company's net sales 
and its cost of goods sold. The amount of revenue generated by the sale 
of products is influenced principally by the price set by the Company 
for its products relative to competitive products. The cost of goods sold 
is based primarily on the cost of components and, to a lesser extent, 
direct labor costs. The type and cost of components included in 
particular configurations of the Company's products (such as memory 
and disk drives) are often directly related to the need to market products 
in configurations competitive with other manufacturers. Competition in 
the personal computer industry is intense and, in the short term, 
frequent changes in pricing and product configuration are often necessary 
in order to remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin as a 
percentage of net sales can be significantly influenced in the short term 
by actions undertaken by the Company in response to industrywide 
competitive pressures.

Gross margin increased as a percentage of sales in the first quarter of 
1997, compared with the same period of 1996, primarily as a result of 
more aggressive pricing actions taken relative to product costs in the 
first quarter of 1996 in order to stimulate demand and increase market 
share.

Gross margin decreased as a percentage of sales in the first quarter of 
1997, compared with the fourth quarter of 1996, primarily as a result of 
continued pricing actions, including rebates, taken on most product 
lines in order to stimulate demand and reduced sales of fully reserved 
product, partially offset by a decrease in charges incurred to provide for 
the costs to correct certain quality problems in certain products. 




				10
<PAGE> 

The gross margin levels in the first quarter of 1997 compared with first 
and fourth quarters of 1996 were also slightly negatively impacted as a 
result of a stronger U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies, 
partially offset by hedging gains. The Company's operating strategy and 
pricing take into account changes in exchange rates over time; however, 
the Company's results of operations can be significantly affected in the 
short term by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to sustain the 
gross margin levels achieved in the first quarter of 1997. Gross margins 
will remain under significant downward pressure due to a variety of 
factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures around the 
world, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. In 
response to those downward pressures, the Company expects it will 
continue to take pricing actions with respect to its products. Gross 
margins could also be affected by the Company's ability to effectively 
manage quality problems and warranty costs, and to stimulate demand 
for certain of its products.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>						
Research and	 First    First	           First   Fourth 
Development	Quarter  Quarter	  Quarter  Quarter			
		 1997	  1996	  Change   1997	    1996    Change
<S>		  <C>	  <C>	   <C>	   <C>	    <C>      <C>
						
Research and
development  $  149	$  153   (3%)	$  149	  $ 146       2%
Percentage of
net sales	7.0%	   4.9%		   7.0%	    6.3%	
</TABLE>						

Research and development expenditures were relatively flat in the first 
quarter of 1997 compared with the first and fourth quarters of 1996. The 
increase as a percentage of net sales resulted from a decrease in the level 
of net sales.
 
The Company believes its research and development expenditures will 
be relatively flat in the second quarter of 1997 compared with the same 
period of the prior year and with the first quarter of 1997. The Company 
believes its research and development expenditures will decrease in the 
third and fourth quarters of 1997 compared with the same periods of the 
prior year and compared with the immediate prior quarters, as a result of 
expected actions under the Company's 1997 supplemental restructuring 
plan, the details of which will be announced later in the second quarter. 
In addition, as a result of the acquisition of NeXT, the Company 
believes it will take a substantial charge to in-process research and 
development at the time of the completion of the purchase which 
occurred in the second quarter. For additional information regarding the 
1997 supplemental restructuring plan and the acquisition of NeXT, refer 
to Notes 2 and 3, respectively, of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item I, and to Factors That 
May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition as well as Liquidity 
and Capital Resources in Part I, Item II of this Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

The Company believes that continued investments in research and 
development are critical to its future growth and competitive position in 
the marketplace and are directly related to continued, timely 
development of new and enhanced products.  






				11
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>						


		 	First    First 	  	   First   Fourth
Selling, General and	Quarter  Quarter	  Quarter  Quarter			
Administrative		 1997	  1996	  Change   1997	    1996    Change
<S>		          <C>	  <C>	   <C>	    <C>	    <C>      <C>
							
						
Selling, general and
administrative	     $   372  $  441	  (16%)  $  372	  $  359      4%
Percentage of net
sales	                17.5%   14.0%             17.5%	   15.5%	
</TABLE>						

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased in amount in the 
first quarter of 1997 when compared with the corresponding period of 
1996, primarily due to reduced expenditures as a result of actions taken 
under the Company's 1996 restructuring plan. Selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased in amount in the first quarter of 1997 
when compared with the fourth quarter of 1996 primarily as a result of 
increased advertising and marketing expenditures incurred during the 
holiday buying season. Selling, general and administrative expenses 
increased as a percentage of net sales in the first quarter of 1997 when 
compared to the first and fourth quarters of 1996, as a result of a 
decrease in the level of net sales.  

The Company believes its selling, general and administrative 
expenditures will decrease slightly in the second quarter of 1997 
compared with the first quarter of 1997, as a result of lower advertising 
and marketing expenditures and further implementation of the 1996 
restructuring plan. The Company believes its selling, general and 
administrative expenditures will decrease in the third and fourth quarters 
of 1997 compared with the same quarters of the prior year and compared 
with the immediate prior quarters, as a result of its anticipated actions 
under the 1997 supplemental restructuring plan, the details of which 
will be announced later in the second quarter, partially offset by the 
amortization expense on the intangible assets the Company expects to 
recognize as a result of the acquisition of NeXT. For additional 
information regarding the Company's restructuring actions and the 
acquisition of NeXT, refer to Notes 2 and 3, respectively, of the Notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item I, 
and to Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition 
as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part I, Item II of this 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>	


		 	First    First 	 	   First   Fourth
Restructuring Costs    Quarter  Quarter	  	  Quarter  Quarter			
		        1997	  1996	  Change   1997	    1996    Change
<S>		        <C>	  <C>	   <C>	    <C>	     <C>      <C>					

						
Restructuring costs 	 --    	 --  	            --    $  (28) 	NM
Percentage of net
sales	                 --	 --		    --	   (1.2%)	

</TABLE>						
NM: Not meaningful.

For information regarding the Company's restructuring actions initiated 
in the second quarter of 1996, including the adjustment to the 
restructuring charge in the fourth quarter of 1996, refer to 



				12
<PAGE> 

Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Unaudited) in Part I, Item I, and to Factors That May Affect Future 
Results and Financial Condition as well as Liquidity and Capital 
Resources in Part I, Item II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, 
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

The Company recently announced that supplemental restructuring 
actions, including significant headcount reductions, will be necessary to 
meet the objectives of the 1996 restructuring plan.  The Company 
expects to recognize a charge for the estimated costs of those actions 
when the details of the related supplemental plan are announced later in 
the second quarter.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>						
		 	First    First 	 	   First   Fourth
Interest and Other     Quarter  Quarter	  	  Quarter  Quarter			
Income(Expense), Net	1997	  1996	  Change   1997	    1996    Change
<S>		        <C>	  <C>	   <C>	    <C>	     <C>      <C>					

	
Interest and other 
income (expense), net  $   4	$  10	  (60%)	  $  4	   $   6     (33%)
</TABLE>						

Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased slightly in the first 
quarter of 1997 compared with the same period of 1996, primarily as a 
result of lower net gains on foreign exchange instruments, partially 
offset by higher interest income.  Interest and other income (expense), 
net, was relatively unchanged in the first quarter of 1997 compared with 
the fourth quarter of 1996.  The Company expects interest income to 
decrease in the second, third and fourth quarters of 1997 compared with 
the immediate prior quarters, due to lower cash balances as a result of 
cash used to acquire NeXT, fund the 1997 supplemental restructuring 
actions and the remaining 1996 restructuring actions, and fund 
operations over at least the next two quarters.

In January 1997, the Company's senior and subordinated long-term debt 
were downgraded to B and CCC+, respectively, by Standard and Poor's 
Rating Agency. The Company was also placed on negative credit watch 
by Moody's Investor Services. These actions could increase the 
Company's cost of funds in future periods.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>	


		 	 First    First 	   First   Fourth
Income Tax Provision    Quarter  Quarter	  Quarter  Quarter			
(Benefit)	        1997	  1996	  Change   1997	    1996    Change
<S>		        <C>	  <C>	   <C>	    <C>	     <C>      <C>					
				
Provision (benefit)
 for income taxes	 --	$ (40)	    NM	     --	   $  15      NM
Effective tax rate	 --	   37%		     --	      37%	
</TABLE>						
NM: Not meaningful.

At December 27, 1996, the Company had deferred tax assets arising 
from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of 
$519 million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities 
for presentation on the Company's balance sheet. A substantial portion 
of this asset is realizable based on the ability to offset existing deferred 
tax liabilities. In the first quarter a valuation allowance of $41 million 
was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits of tax losses 
which may not be realized. Realization of approximately $85 million of 
the asset is dependent on the 
				13
<PAGE> 

Company's ability to generate approximately $245 million of future 
U.S. taxable income. Management believes that it is more likely than 
not that the asset will be realized based on forecasted U.S. income. 
However, there can be no assurance that the Company will meet its 
expectations of future U.S. income. As a result, the amount of the 
deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced in the near and 
long term if estimates of future taxable U.S. income are reduced. Such 
an occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company's financial 
results and condition. The Company will continue to evaluate the 
realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for 
and amount of the valuation allowance.


Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial 
Condition

The Company's future operating results and financial condition are 
dependent on the Company's ability to successfully develop, 
manufacture, and market technologically innovative products in order to 
meet dynamic customer demand patterns, and its ability to effect a 
change in marketplace perception of the Company's prospects. Inherent 
in this process are a number of factors that the Company must 
successfully manage in order to achieve favorable future operating 
results and financial condition. Potential risks and uncertainties that 
could affect the Company's future operating results and financial 
condition include, without limitation, continued competitive pressures 
in the marketplace and the effect of any reaction by the Company to 
such competitive pressures, including pricing actions by the Company; 
the Company's ability to supply products in certain categories; the 
Company's ability to make timely delivery to the marketplace of 
technological innovations, including its ability to make timely delivery 
of planned enhancements to the current Mac OS and to make timely 
delivery of a new and substantially backward-compatible OS; the 
Company's ability to successfully integrate NeXT technologies, 
processes and employees with those at Apple; uncertainties concerning 
the Company's ability to successfully implement its strategic direction 
and restructuring actions, including the expected supplemental 
restructuring actions; the effects of significant adverse publicity; and the 
availability of third-party software for particular applications.

The Company expects to incur a substantial loss in the second quarter 
as a result of the aforementioned in-process research and development 
and restructuring charges, and the aforementioned expected decrease in 
net sales compared with the first quarter of 1997. The Company expects 
that it will not return to profitability until at least the fourth quarter of 
1997, if not later.

Restructuring of Operations and  New Business Model

During 1996, the Company began to implement certain restructuring 
actions aimed at reducing its cost structure, improving its 
competitiveness, and restoring sustained profitability. The Company 
recently announced that supplemental restructuring actions, including 
significant headcount reductions, will be necessary in order to meet the 
foregoing objectives. The details of the 1997 supplemental restructuring 
plan will be announced later in the second quarter. There are several 
risks inherent in the Company's efforts to transition to a new cost 
structure. These include the risk that the Company will not be able to 
reduce expenditures quickly enough to restore sustained profitability and 
the risk that cost-cutting initiatives will impair the Company's ability 
to innovate and remain competitive in the computer industry.  

As part of its restructuring effort, the Company has been implementing 
a new business model. Implementation of the new business model 
involves several risks, including the risk that by simplifying its product 
line the Company will increase its dependence on fewer products, 
potentially reduce overall sales, and increase its reliance on unproven 
products and technology. Another risk of the new business model is 
that by increasing the proportion of the Company's products to be 
manufactured under outsourcing arrangements, the Company could lose 
control of the quality or quantity of the products manufactured, or lose 
the flexibility to make timely changes
 
				14
<PAGE> 

in production schedules in order to respond to changing market 
conditions. In addition, the new business model could adversely affect 
employee morale, thereby damaging the Company's ability to retain and 
motivate employees. Also, because the new business model 
contemplates that the Company will rely to a greater extent on 
collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, the 
Company will have less direct control over certain of its research and 
development efforts, and its ability to create innovative new products 
may be reduced. In addition, the new business model now includes the 
acquisition of NeXT. There can be no assurance that the technologies 
acquired from NeXT will be successfully exploited, or that key NeXT 
employees and processes will be retained and successfully integrated 
with those at Apple. Finally, even if the new business model is 
successfully implemented, there can be no assurance that it will 
effectively resolve the various issues currently facing the Company. In 
addition, although the Company believes that the actions it is taking 
and will take under its current and supplemental restructuring plans, and 
its acquisition of NeXT, should help restore marketplace confidence in 
the Macintosh platform, there can be no assurance that such actions 
will be successful.

For the foregoing reasons there can be no assurance that the new 
business model, including the restructuring actions and the acquisition 
of NeXT, will enable the Company to achieve its objectives of reducing 
its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, and restoring 
sustained profitability. The Company's future operating results and 
financial condition could be adversely affected should it encounter 
difficulty in effectively managing the transition to the new business 
model and cost structure.

For information regarding the Company's restructuring actions and the 
acquisition of NeXT, refer to Notes 2 and 3, respectively, of the Notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item I, 
and to Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part I, Item II of this 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.

Product  Introductions and Transitions 

Due to the highly volatile nature of the personal computer industry, 
which is characterized by dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid 
technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new 
products and product enhancements.  The success of new product 
introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market 
acceptance, the Company's ability to manage the risks associated with 
product transitions, the availability of application software for new 
products, the effective management of inventory levels in line with 
anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate 
quantities to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products 
may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction.  
Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that 
new products will have on its sales or results of operations.  In 
addition, although the number of new product introductions may 
decrease under the Company's new business model, the risks and 
uncertainties associated with new product introductions may increase as 
the Company refocuses its product offerings on key growth segments.

The rate of product shipments immediately following introduction of a 
new product is not necessarily an indication of the future rate of 
shipments for that product, which depends on many factors, some of 
which are not under the control of the Company. These factors may 
include initial large purchases by a small segment of the user 
population that tends to purchase new technology prior to its acceptance 
by the majority of users ("early adopters"); purchases in satisfaction of 
pent-up demand by users who anticipated new technology and, as a 
result, deferred purchases of other products; and overordering by dealers 
who anticipate shortages due to the aforementioned factors. These 
factors may be offset by others, such as the deferral of purchases by 
many users until new technology is accepted as "proven" and for which 
commonly used software products are available; and the reduction of 
orders by dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply of 
products previously in backlog. 


				15
<PAGE> 

Backlog is often volatile after new product introductions due to the 
aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with 
introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe 
they can obtain sufficient supply of the new products. 

The measurement of demand for newly introduced products is further 
complicated by the availability of different product configurations, 
which may include various types of built-in peripherals and software. 
Configurations may also require certain localization (such as language) 
for various markets and, as a result, demand in different geographic areas 
may be a function of the availability of third-party software in those 
localized versions. For example, the availability of European-language 
versions of software products manufactured by U.S. producers may lag 
behind the availability of U.S. versions by a quarter or more. This may 
result in lower initial demand for the Company's new products outside 
the United States, even though localized versions of the Company's 
products may be available.

The increasing integration of functions and complexity of operations of 
the Company's products also increase the risk that latent defects or other 
faults could be discovered by customers or end-users after volumes of 
products have been produced or shipped.  If such defects were 
significant, the Company could incur material recall and replacement 
costs under product warranties.

The Company recently announced a "dual track" approach to its OS 
development. The Company plans to continue to introduce 
enhancements to the current Mac OS and later introduce a new OS (code 
named "Rhapsody") which is expected to offer advanced functionality 
based upon the Mac OS and NeXT software technologies. However, the 
NeXT software technologies that the Company plans to use in the 
development of Rhapsody were not originally designed to be compatible 
with the Mac OS. As a result, there can be no assurance that the 
development of Rhapsody will be successful. In addition, Rhapsody 
may not be fully backward-compatible with existing applications, 
which could result in a loss of existing customers. Finally, it is 
uncertain whether Rhapsody or the planned enhancements to the current 
Mac OS will gain developer support and market acceptance. Inability to 
successfully develop and make timely delivery of a substantially 
backward-compatible Rhapsody or of planned enhancements to the 
current Mac OS, or to gain developer support and market acceptance for 
those operating systems, may have an adverse impact on the 
Company's operating results and financial condition.

Competition

The personal computer industry is highly competitive and is 
characterized by aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on 
gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life 
cycles, continual improvement in product price/performance 
characteristics, price sensitivity on the part of consumers, and a large 
number of competitors. The Company's results of operations and 
financial condition have been, and in the future may continue to be, 
adversely affected by industrywide pricing pressures and downward 
pressures on gross margins. The industry has also been characterized by 
rapid technological advances in software functionality and hardware 
performance and features based on existing or emerging industry 
standards. Many of the Company's competitors have greater financial, 
marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources; broader product 
lines; and larger installed customer bases than those of the Company.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may be 
affected by overall demand for personal computers and general customer 
preferences for one platform over another or one set of product features 
over another.







				16
<PAGE> 

The Company is currently the primary maker of hardware that uses the 
Macintosh operating system ("Mac(registered trademark) OS"). The Mac 
OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, 
which is dominated by makers of computers that run the MS-DOS and 
Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company believes that the 
Mac OS, with its perceived advantages over MS-DOS and Windows, 
has been a driving force behind sales of the Company's personal 
computer hardware for the past several years. Recent innovations in the 
Windows platform, including those introduced by Windows 95, have 
added features to the Windows platform similar to those offered by the 
Mac OS. The Company is currently taking and will continue to take 
steps to respond to the competitive pressures being placed on its 
personal computer sales as a result of the recent innovations in the 
Windows platform. The Company's future operating results and 
financial condition may be affected by its ability to maintain and 
increase the installed base for the Macintosh platform.  

As part of its efforts to increase the installed base for the Macintosh 
platform, the Company announced the licensing of the Mac OS to other 
personal computer vendors in January 1995, as well as an additional 
licensing initiative in 1996. Several vendors currently sell products that 
utilize the Macintosh operating system. The Company believes that 
licensing the operating system will result in a broader installed base on 
which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations 
for the Macintosh platform. However, there can be no assurance that the 
installed base will be broadened by the licensing of the operating 
system or that licensing will result in an increase in the number of 
application software titles or the rate at which vendors will bring to 
market application software based on the Mac OS. In addition, as a 
result of licensing its operating system, the Company competes with 
other companies producing Mac OS-based computer systems. The 
benefits to the Company from licensing the Mac OS to third parties 
may be more than offset by the disadvantages of competing with them.

As a supplemental means of addressing the competition from MS-DOS 
and Windows, the Company has devoted substantial resources toward 
developing personal computer products capable of running application 
software designed for the MS-DOS or Windows operating systems 
("Cross-Platform Products"). These products include the RISC-based 
PowerPC(trademark) microprocessor and either include the Pentium or 
586-class microprocessor or can accommodate an add-on card containing 
a Pentium or 586-class microprocessor. These products enable users to 
run concurrently applications that require the Mac OS, MS-DOS, 
Windows 3.1, or Windows 95 operating systems. 

Depending on customer demand, the Company may supply customers 
who purchase Cross-Platform Products with Windows operating system 
software under licensing agreements with Microsoft. However, in order 
to do so, the Company will need to enter into one or more agreements 
with certain Microsoft distributors.

The Company, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") 
and Motorola, Inc. have agreed upon and announced the availability of 
specifications for a PowerPC microprocessor-based hardware reference 
platform. These specifications define a "unified" personal computer 
architecture that gives access to both the Power Macintosh platform and 
the PC environment and utilizes standard industry components. The 
Company's future operating results and financial condition may be 
affected by its ability to continue to implement this agreement and to 
manage the risk associated with the transition to this new hardware 
reference platform.

Decisions by customers to purchase the Company's personal 
computers, as opposed to MS-DOS or Windows-based systems, are 
often based on the availability of third-party software for particular 
applications. The Company believes that the availability of third-party 
application software for the Company's hardware products depends in 
part on third-party developers' perception and analysis of the relative 
benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for 
the Company's products versus software for the larger MS-DOS and 
Windows market. This analysis is based on factors such as the perceived 
strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated potential 
revenue that may be generated, and the costs of developing such 
software products.  To the extent

				17
<PAGE> 

the Company's recent financial losses and declining demand for the 
Company's product have caused software developers to question the 
Company's prospects in the personal computer market, developers could 
be less inclined to develop new application software or upgrade existing 
software for the Company's products and more inclined to devote their 
resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger MS-DOS 
and Windows market. Microsoft Corporation is an important developer 
of application software for the Company's products. Accordingly, 
Microsoft's interest in producing application software for the 
Company's products may be influenced by Microsoft's perception of its 
interests as the vendor of the Windows operating systems. 

The Company's ability to produce and market competitive products is 
also dependent on the ability and desire of IBM and Motorola, Inc., the 
suppliers of the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain of the 
Company's products, to supply to the Company in adequate numbers 
microprocessors that produce superior price/performance results 
compared with those supplied to the Company's competitors by Intel 
Corporation, the developer and producer of the microprocessors used by 
most personal computers using the MS-DOS and Windows operating 
systems. IBM produces personal computers based on Intel 
microprocessors as well as workstations based on the PowerPC 
microprocessor, and is also the developer of OS/2, a competing 
operating system to the Company's Mac OS. Accordingly, IBM's 
interest in supplying the Company with  microprocessors for the 
Company's products may be influenced by IBM's perception of its 
interests as a competing manufacturer of personal computers and as a 
competing operating system vendor.  

Several competitors of the Company, including Compaq, IBM, and 
Microsoft, have either targeted or announced their intention to target 
certain of the Company's key market segments, including education and 
publishing. Many of these companies have greater financial, marketing, 
manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company.

The Company is integrating Internet capabilities into its new and 
existing hardware and software platforms. There can be no assurance 
that the Company will be able to continue to do so successfully. In 
addition, the Internet market is rapidly evolving and is characterized by 
an increasing number of market entrants who have introduced or 
developed products addressing access to, authoring for, or 
communication over, the Internet. Many of these competitors have a 
significant lead over the Company in developing products for the 
Internet, have significantly greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, 
and technological resources than the Company, or both.


Global Market Risks 

A large portion of the Company's revenue is derived from its 
international operations. As a result, the Company's operations and 
financial results could be significantly affected by international factors, 
such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic 
conditions in the foreign markets in which the Company distributes its 
products. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the 
U.S. dollar value of non-U.S. dollar-based sales decreases. When the 
U.S. dollar weakens, the U.S. dollar value of non-U.S. dollar-based 
sales increases. Correspondingly, the U.S. dollar value of non-U.S. 
dollar-based costs increases when the U.S. dollar weakens and decreases 
when the U.S. dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company is a net 
receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar and, as such, benefits 
from a weaker dollar and is adversely affected by a stronger dollar 
relative to major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes in 
exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may 
negatively affect the Company's consolidated sales and gross margins 
(as expressed in U.S. dollars). 


				18
<PAGE> 

To mitigate the short-term impact of fluctuating currency exchange 
rates on the Company's non-U.S. dollar-based sales, product 
procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its 
non-U.S. dollar-based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into 
foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge its assets, 
liabilities and firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges of 
firmly committed transactions do not extend beyond one year. The 
Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts to hedge 
certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges of 
probable but not firmly committed transactions currently do not extend 
beyond one year. To reduce the costs associated with these ongoing 
foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells 
foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign 
exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option 
contracts not accounted for as hedges, including all transactions intended 
to reduce the costs associated with the Company's foreign exchange 
hedging programs, are carried at fair value and are adjusted on each 
balance sheet date for changes in exchange rates.  

While the Company is exposed with respect to fluctuations in the 
interest rates of many of the world's leading industrialized countries, the 
Company's interest income and expense is most sensitive to 
fluctuations in the general level of U.S. interest rates. In this regard, 
changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on the 
Company's cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as well 
as interest paid on its notes payable to banks and long-term debt. To 
mitigate the impact of fluctuations in U.S. interest rates, the Company 
has entered into interest rate swap, collar, and floor transactions. Certain 
of these transactions are intended to better match the Company's 
floating-rate interest income on its cash, cash equivalents, and short-
term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense on its long-term 
debt. The Company also enters into these transactions in order to 
diversify a portion of the Company's exposure away from fluctuations 
in short-term U.S. interest rates. These instruments may extend the 
Company's cash investment horizon up to a maximum duration of three 
years.

To ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's foreign 
exchange and interest rate hedge positions, as well as to monitor the 
risks and opportunities of the nonhedge portfolios, the Company 
continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, 
and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both on a stand-
alone basis and in conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and 
interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both an accounting 
and an economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons of 
the Company's risk management activities, there can be no assurance 
that the aforementioned programs will offset more than a portion of the 
adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements in 
either foreign exchange or interest rates. In addition, the timing of the 
accounting for recognition of gains and losses related to mark-to-market 
instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing of 
gains and losses related to the underlying economic exposures and, 
therefore, may adversely affect the Company's operating results and 
financial position. The Company generally does not engage in leveraged 
hedging. 

The Company's current financial condition is expected to increase the 
costs of its hedging transactions, as well as affect the nature of the 
hedging transactions into which the Company's counterparties are 
willing to enter.

Inventory and Supply

The Company provides reserves against any inventories of products that 
have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand, accrues for 
any cancellation fees of orders for inventories that have been cancelled, 
and accrues for the estimated costs to correct any product quality 
problems.  Although the Company believes its inventory and related 
reserves are adequate, no assurance can be given that the Company will 
not incur additional inventory and related charges.  In addition, such 
charges have had, and may again have, a material affect on the 
Company's financial position and results of operations.


				19
<PAGE> 

The Company must order components for its products and build 
inventory well in advance of product shipments. Because the 
Company's markets are volatile and subject to rapid technology and 
price changes, there is a risk that the Company will forecast incorrectly 
and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. The 
Company's operating results and financial condition have been in the 
past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the 
Company's ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-
term shifts in customer demand patterns.  

Certain of the Company's products are manufactured in whole or in part 
by third-party manufacturers, either pursuant to design specifications of 
the Company or otherwise. As a result of the Company's restructuring 
actions, which include the sale of the Company's Fountain, Colorado, 
manufacturing facility to SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI") and a related 
manufacturing outsourcing agreement with SCI, the proportion of the 
Company's products produced and distributed under outsourcing 
arrangements will increase. While outsourcing arrangements may lower 
the fixed cost of operations, they will also reduce the direct control the 
Company has over production. It is uncertain what effect such 
diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of the products 
manufactured, or the flexibility of the Company to respond to changing 
market conditions. Furthermore, any efforts by the Company to manage 
its inventory under outsourcing arrangements could subject the 
Company to liquidated damages or cancelation of the arrangement.  

Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain 
provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains 
at least initially responsible to the ultimate consumer for warranty 
service. Accordingly, in the event of product defects or warranty 
liability, the Company may remain primarily liable. Any unanticipated 
product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements 
with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could adversely affect the 
Company's future operating results and financial condition.

The Company's ability to satisfy demand for its products may be 
limited by the availability of key components. The Company believes 
that the availability from suppliers to the personal computer industry of 
microprocessors and ASICS presents the most significant potential for 
constraining the Company's ability to manufacture products. Some 
advanced microprocessors are currently in the early stages of ramp-up 
for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and 
other producers in the personal computer industry also compete for 
other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced 
increased demand for such products, due to either increased consumer 
demand or increased use of semiconductors in their products (such as the 
cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses 
some components that are not common to the rest of the personal 
computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). 
Continued availability of these components may be affected if producers 
were to decide to concentrate on the production of common components 
instead of components customized to meet the Company's requirements. 
Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could 
decrease the Company's net sales and adversely affect the Company's 
operating results and financial condition.

Marketing and Distribution

A number of uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution of 
the Company's products. Currently, the Company's primary means of 
distribution is through third-party computer resellers. Such resellers 
include consumer channels such as mass-merchandise stores, consumer 
electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company's business 
and financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition 
of these resellers weakened or if resellers within consumer channels 
were to decide not to continue to distribute the Company's products.





20
<PAGE> 

Uncertainty over demand for the Company's products may cause 
resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company's 
products. Under the Company's arrangements with its resellers, resellers 
have the option to reduce or eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, 
in most instances without financial penalty. Resellers also have the 
option to return products to the Company without penalty within 
certain limits, beyond which they may be assessed fees. The Company 
has experienced a reduction in ordering from historical levels by 
resellers due to uncertainty concerning the Company's condition and 
prospects.

Other Factors

The majority of the Company's research and development activities, its 
corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including 
certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The 
Company's operating results and financial condition could be materially 
adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.

Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries 
may subject the Company to environmental and other regulations 
which include, in some instances, the requirement that the Company 
provide consumers with the ability to return to the Company product at 
the end of its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally 
safe disposal or recycling with the Company. It is unclear what effect 
such regulation will have on the Company's future operating results and 
financial condition.

The Company is currently in the process of replacing its existing 
transaction systems (which include order management, product 
procurement, distribution, and finance) with a single integrated system 
as part of its ongoing effort to increase operational efficiency. The 
Company's future operating results and financial condition could be 
adversely affected if the Company is unable to implement and 
effectively manage the transition to this new integrated system.  

As part of the Company's restructuring plan, the Company sold its 
Napa, California, data center to MCI Systemhouse ("MCI"), and entered 
into a data processing outsourcing agreement with MCI. While this 
outsourcing agreement may lower the Company's fixed costs of 
operations, it will also reduce the direct control the Company has over 
its data processing. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control 
will have on the Company's data processing.

Because of the foregoing factors, as well as other factors affecting the 
Company's operating results and financial condition, past financial 
performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future 
performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate 
results or trends in future periods. In addition, the Company's 
participation in a highly dynamic industry often results in significant 
volatility of the Company's common stock price.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company's financial position with respect to cash, cash 
equivalents, and short-term investments, net of notes payable to banks, 
increased to $1,627 million at December 27, 1996, from $1,559 
million at September 27, 1996. The Company's financial position with 
respect to cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased 
to $1,807 million at December 27, 1996, from $1,745 million at 
September 27, 1996. The Company's cash and cash equivalent balance 
at December 27, 1996 and September 27, 1996, includes $174 million 
and $177 million, respectively, pledged as collateral to support letters 
of credit primarily associated with the Company's purchase 
commitments under the terms of the sale of the Company's Fountain, 
Colorado, manufacturing facility to SCI. 

Cash generated by operations during the first quarter of 1997 totaled $94 
million, primarily the result of a decrease in inventories, partially offset 
by the Company's net loss. The Company expects to use cash to fund 
operations over at least the remainder of 1997, if not longer.

				21
<PAGE>

The Company expects that cash generated from the sale of equity 
investments and property, plant and equipment will be significantly less 
for the remainder of 1997 compared with the same period of 1996. Cash 
used for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment totaled $20 
million in the first three months of 1997, and consisted primarily of 
increases in manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company 
expects that the level of capital expenditures for the remainder of 1997 
will be comparable to the same period of 1996.

In January 1997, the Company's senior and subordinated long-term debt 
were downgraded to B and CCC+, respectively, by Standard and Poor's 
Rating Agency. The Company was also placed on negative credit watch 
by Moody's Investor Services. These actions may increase the 
Company's cost of funds in future periods. In addition, the Company 
may be required to pledge additional collateral with respect to certain of 
its borrowings and letters of credit and to agree to more stringent 
covenants than in the past. 

The Company believes that its balances of cash and cash equivalents 
and short-term investments, together with continued short-term 
borrowings from banks, will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements 
over the next 12 months. In addition to funding net losses over at least 
the next two quarters, expected cash requirements include, without 
limitation, an estimated $385 million for the acquisition of NeXT, an 
estimated $59 million to complete the remaining actions under the 
1996 restructuring plan, and an as yet unquantified amount for the 
actions under the expected 1997 supplemental restructuring plan. No 
assurance can be given that short-term borrowings from banks can be 
continued, or that any additional required financing could be obtained 
should the restructuring plans take longer to implement than anticipated 
or be unsuccessful. If the Company is unable to obtain such financing, 
its liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition would be 
materially adversely affected. 

The Internal Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax 
deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1991, and the Company has 
made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the 
proposed deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1988, and most of the 
issues in dispute for these years have been resolved. On June 29, 1995, 
the IRS issued a notice of deficiency proposing increases to the amount 
of the Company's federal income taxes for the years 1989 through 
1991. The Company has filed a petition with the United States Tax 
Court to contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes 
that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may 
result from these tax examinations. 





















				22
<PAGE>

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

Reference is made to page 45 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report on 
Form 10-K under the subheading "Litigation" for a discussion of certain 
purported shareholder class action suits, certain consumer class actions 
relating to monitor-size advertising, and "repetitive stress injury" 
claims.

In December 1996, the Company filed a demurrer to the first amended 
complaint in the case styled Derek Pritchard v. Michael Spindler et al., 
and in January 1997 filed a demurrer to the complaint in the action 
entitled LS Men's Clothing Defined Benefit Pension Fund v. Michael 
Spindler et al. 

The Company has various other claims, lawsuits, disputes with third 
parties, investigations and pending actions involving allegations of 
false or misleading advertising, product defects, discrimination, 
infringement of intellectual property rights, and breach of contract and 
other matters against the Company  and its subsidiaries incident to the 
operation of its business. The liability, if any, associated with these 
matters was not determinable as of the date of this filing. 

The Company believes the resolution of the matters cited above will 
not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition as reported 
in the accompanying financial statements. However, depending on the 
amount and timing of any unfavorable resolution of these lawsuits, it is 
possible that the Company's future results of operations or cash flows 
could be materially affected in a particular period.

































				23
<PAGE>

Item 6. Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)	Exhibits 

Exhibit
Number	Description

2	Agreement and Plan of Merger Among Apple 
	Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation 
	and NeXT Software, Inc., dated as of December 20, 
	1996.

10.A.41	Employment Agreement effective December 2, 1996, 
	between Registrant and John B. Douglas III.

27	Financial Data Schedule.


 

(b)	Reports on Form 8-K

	Current Reports on Form 8-K, dated October 28, 1996 and 
December 24, 1996, respectively, were filed by Registrant with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission to report under Item 5 thereof the 
press release issued to the public on October 16, 1996 regarding the 
Registrant's fourth quarter results and the press release issued to the 
public on December 20, 1996 regarding the ageement to acquire NeXT 
Software,Inc.

	Current Reports on Form 8-K dated December 13, 1996 and 
Form 8-K/A dated December 20, 1996 respectively, were filed by 
Registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission to report 
under Item 4 thereof the Registrant's appointment on December 4, 
1996, of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP as the Company's Certifying 
Accountant.
























				24
<PAGE>


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by 
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.








APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
(Registrant)








By:  /s/Fred D. Anderson 

Fred D. Anderson
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 7, 1997




























				25
<PAGE>


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit
Index
Number  	Description					       Page

2	  Agreement and Plan of Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc.,
	  Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., 
  	  dated as of December 20, 1996.				27


10.A.41	  Employment Agreement effective December 2, 1996, between 
          Registrant and John B. Douglas III. 				71

27	  Financial Data Schedule.					75





































				26
<PAGE>

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>
			

EXHIBIT 2


















			AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER



				  Among

			   APPLE COMPUTER, INC.,

		    BLACKBIRD ACQUISITION CORPORATION

				  and

			   NEXT SOFTWARE, INC.




		      Dated as of December 20, 1996



















				27
<PAGE>

TABLE OF CONTENTS



ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.01.	Certain Defined Terms

ARTICLE II

THE MERGER

SECTION 2.01.	The Merger
SECTION 2.02.	Effective Time
SECTION 2.03.	Effect of the Merger
SECTION 2.04.	Articles of Incorporation; Bylaws
SECTION 2.05.	Directors and Officers
SECTION 2.06.	Effect on Capital Stock
SECTION 2.07.	Dissenting Shares
SECTION 2.08.	Surrender of Certificates
SECTION 2.09.	No Further Ownership Rights in Company 
		Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock
SECTION 2.10.	Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
SECTION 2.11.	Taking of Necessary Action; Further Action

ARTICLE III

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY

SECTION 3.01.	Organization, Authority and Qualification of 
		the Company
SECTION 3.02.	Capital Stock of the Company; Ownership of 
		the Shares
SECTION 3.03.	Subsidiaries
SECTION 3.04.	Corporate Books and Records
SECTION 3.05.	No Conflict
SECTION 3.06.	Governmental Consents and Approvals
SECTION 3.07.	Financial Information/Books and Records
SECTION 3.08.	No Undisclosed Liabilities
SECTION 3.09.	Receivables; Inventory
SECTION 3.10.	Conduct in the Ordinary Course; Absence of 
		Certain Changes, Events and Conditions
SECTION 3.11.	Litigation
SECTION 3.12.	Certain Interests
SECTION 3.13.	Compliance with Laws
SECTION 3.14.	Environmental and Other Permits and 
		Licenses; Related Matters
SECTION 3.15.	Material Contracts
SECTION 3.16.	Intellectual Property
SECTION 3.17.	Real Property
SECTION 3.18.	Assets
SECTION 3.19.	Customers
SECTION 3.20.	Employee Benefit Plans; Employment 
		Agreements
SECTION 3.21.	Labor Matters
SECTION 3.22.	Key Employees
SECTION 3.23.	Taxes
				28
<PAGE>


SECTION 3.24.	Insurance
SECTION 3.25.	Brokers
SECTION 3.26.	Approval Requirements

ARTICLE IV

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PARENT AND 
MERGER SUB

SECTION 4.01.	Organization and Authority
SECTION 4.02.	No Conflict
SECTION 4.03.	Governmental Consents and Approvals
SECTION 4.04.	Brokers
SECTION 4.05.	SEC Documents: Undisclosed Liabilities
SECTION 4.06.	Absence of Certain Changes or Events
SECTION 4.07.	Litigation
SECTION 4.08.	Voting Requirements

ARTICLE V

ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS

SECTION 5.01.	Conduct of Business Prior to the Closing
SECTION 5.02.	Access to Information
SECTION 5.03.	Regulatory and Other Authorizations; Notices 
		and Consents
SECTION 5.04.	Notice of Developments
SECTION 5.05.	No Solicitation or Negotiation
SECTION 5.06.	Further Action
SECTION 5.07.	Conduct of Business by Parent

ARTICLE VI

STOCK OPTIONS

SECTION 6.01.	Stock Options
SECTION 6.02.	Certain Employee Benefit Matters.

ARTICLE VII

	ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS

SECTION 7.01.	Securities Filings
SECTION 7.02.	Company Shareholder Approval.
SECTION 7.03.	NNM Listing
SECTION 7.04.	Shelf Registration
SECTION 7.05.	Form S-8
SECTION 7.06.	Guaranteed Debt
SECTION 7.07.	Directors' and Officers' Indemnification and 
Insurance

ARTICLE VIII

CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

SECTION 8.01.	Conditions to Obligations of Each of the 
Company and Parent
SECTION 8.02.	Conditions to Obligations of the Company
SECTION 8.03.	Conditions to Obligations of Parent
				29
<PAGE>

ARTICLE IX

SURVIVAL; INDEMNIFICATION

SECTION 9.01.	Survival of Representations and Warranties

ARTICLE X

TERMINATION AND WAIVER

SECTION 10.01.	Termination
SECTION 10.02.	Effect of Termination
SECTION 10.03.	Waiver

ARTICLE XI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 11.01.	Expenses
SECTION 11.02.	Notices
SECTION 11.03.	Public Announcements
SECTION 11.04.	Headings
SECTION 11.05.	Severability
SECTION 11.06.	Entire Agreement
SECTION 11.07.	Assignment
SECTION 11.08.	No Third Party Beneficiaries
SECTION 11.09.	Amendment
SECTION 11.10.	Governing Law
SECTION 11.11.	Counterparts

ANNEXES
Annex A	Form of Agreement of Merger
























				30
<PAGE>

AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER

		AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of 
December 20, 1996 (the "Agreement"), among APPLE COMPUTER, 
INC., a California corporation ("Parent"), BLACKBIRD 
ACQUISITION CORPORATION, a California corporation and a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), and NEXT 
SOFTWARE, INC., a California corporation (the "Company").

W I T N E S S E T H:

		WHEREAS, the Boards of Directors of Parent, Merger Sub 
and the Company have each determined that it is in the best interests of 
their respective shareholders for Parent to acquire the Company upon 
the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;

		WHEREAS, in furtherance of such acquisition, the Boards of 
Directors of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have each approved 
the merger (the "Merger") of Merger Sub with and into the Company in 
accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of California 
("California Law") and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set 
forth herein;

		WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this 
Agreement and as an inducement to Parent to enter into this Agreement, 
the Principal Shareholder has entered into a voting agreement (the 
"Voting Agreement") pursuant to which the Principal Shareholder has 
agreed to sign a written consent with regard to all of his shares of 
Company Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock in favor of the 
approval of this Agreement and the Merger;

		WHEREAS, the Principal Shareholder will become an at will, 
part-time employee of Parent reporting to Parent's Chief Executive 
Officer and Chairman to work on new products, software development, 
product software strategy and the integration of the Company into 
Parent;

		NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and 
the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, and intending to 
be legally bound hereby, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company hereby 
agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS

		SECTION 1.01. Certain Defined Terms. As used in this 
Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

		"Action" means any claim, action, suit, arbitration, inquiry, 
proceeding or investigation by or before any Governmental Authority.

		"Affiliate" means, with respect to any specified Person, any 
other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more 
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control 
with, such specified Person.

		"Agreement" or "this Agreement" means this Agreement and 
Plan of Merger, dated as of December 20, 1996, among the Company, 
Parent and Merger Sub (including the Exhibits hereto and the 
Disclosure Schedule) and all amendments hereto made in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 11.09.

		"Assets" has the meaning specified in Section 3.18.

		"Business" means the business of developing, marketing and 
supporting software and all other business which is conducted by the 
Company and the Subsidiaries.
				31
<PAGE>

		"California Law" has the meaning specified in the recitals to 
this Agreement.

		Termination for "Cause" shall mean termination of an 
Optionee's employment with Parent because of (A) his refusal or failure 
(other than by reason of the incapacity of an Optionee due to physical 
or mental illness) to perform his duties hereunder or to comply with the 
reasonable directions received or policies established by Parent, the 
CEO, the Board or any other person to whom an Optionee reports, (B) 
the commission by an Optionee of a felony, or the perpetration by an 
Optionee of a dishonest act or a crime involving fraud or moral 
turpitude or common law fraud against Parent or any affiliate or 
subsidiary thereof, or (C) any act or omission by an Optionee which is 
the result of such Optionee's willful misconduct or gross negligence and 
which, in the good faith opinion of Parent, is injurious in any material 
respect to the financial condition, business or reputation of Parent or 
any of its affiliates or subsidiaries.

		"CERCLA" means the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended 
through the date hereof.

		"CERCLIS" means the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Information System, as updated 
through the date hereof.

		"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

		"Common Merger Consideration" means $10.00, as adjusted 
pursuant to Section 2.06(h).

		"Company" has the meaning specified in the recitals to this 
Agreement.

		"Company's Accountants" means KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, 
independent accountants of the Company.

		"Company Common Stock" means the common stock of the 
Company.

		"Company Preferred Stock" means the Company Series A 
Preferred Stock, the Company Series B Preferred Stock, the Company 
Series C Preferred Stock and the Company Series D Preferred Stock, 
collectively.

		"Company Series A Preferred Stock" means the Series A 
Preferred Stock of the Company.

		"Company Series B Preferred Stock" means the Series B 
Preferred Stock of the Company.

		"Company Series C Preferred Stock" means the Series C 
Preferred Stock of the Company.

		"Company Series D Preferred Stock" means the Series D 
Preferred Stock of the Company.

		"Company Stock Options" means the "Options" referred to in 
the Stock Option Plan.

 		"Confidentiality Agreement" means the letter agreement 
effective November 25, 1996 between the Company and Parent.

		"Consent" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01(c).
				32
<PAGE>

		"Control" (including the terms "controlled by" and "under 
common control with"), with respect to the relationship between or 
among two or more Persons, means the possession, directly or 
indirectly or as trustee or executor, of the power to direct or cause 
thedirection of the affairs or management of a Person, whether through 
the ownership of voting securities, as trustee or executor, by contract or 
otherwise, including, without limitation, the ownership, directly or 
indirectly, of securities having the power to elect a majority of the 
board of directors or similar body governing the affairs of such Person.

		"Conversion Ratio" means the quotient determined by dividing 
the Common Merger Consideration by the Effective Time Parent Price.

		"Disclosure Schedule" means the Disclosure Schedule attached 
hereto, dated as of the date hereof, and forming a part of this Agreement.

		"Effective Time" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02.

		"Effective Time Parent Price" means the average of the closing 
prices of Parent Common Stock on the NNM over the last 10 full 
trading days prior to the Effective Time.

		"Encumbrance" means any security interest, pledge, mortgage, 
lien (including, without limitation, environmental and tax liens), 
charge, encumbrance, adverse claim, preferential arrangement or 
restriction of any kind, including, without limitation, any restriction on 
the use, voting, transfer, receipt of income or other exercise of any 
attributes of ownership.

		"Environment" means surface waters, groundwaters, soil, 
subsurface strata and  air.

		"Environmental Claims" means any and all administrative, 
regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, 
liens, notices of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or 
potential liability, investigations, proceedings, consent orders or 
consent agreements relating in any way to any Environmental Law, any 
Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged 
injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the Environment, 
including, without limitation, (a) by Governmental Authorities for 
enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or 
damages and (b) by any Governmental Authority or any Person for 
damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or 
injunctive relief.

		"Environmental Laws" means any Law, now or hereafter in 
effect and as amended, and any judicial, administrative or otherwise 
binding interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative 
order, consent decree or judgment, relating to the environment, health, 
safety or Hazardous Materials, including, without limitation, the 
CERCLA; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. SS
6901 et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. SS 
6901 et seq.; the Clean Water Act,33 U.S.C. SS 1251 et seq.; the Toxic 
Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. SS 2601 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, 
42 U.S.C. SS 7401 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. SS 
300f et seq.; the Atomic Energy Act, 42 U.S.C. SS 2011 et seq; the 
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C. SS 136 et 
seq.; and the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. SS 301 
et seq.

		"Environmental Permits" means all permits, approvals, 
identification numbers, licenses and other authorizations required under 
any applicable Environmental Law.

		"ERISA" has the meaning specified in Section 3.21(a).

		"Financial Statements" has the meaning specified in Section 
3.07(a).

		"Funded Debt" means the sum of all Indebtedness, including 
accrued interest, pursuant to the Loan Agreement between the Company 
and Canon, Inc. dated as of July 27, 1992, as amended.
				33
<PAGE>

		"Good Reason" shall mean, with regard to a Transferred Senior 
Executive, any of the following:

	(i) a substantial diminution in such Transferred Senior Executive's 
position or duties as of the Effective Time, or an adverse change to the 
title of such Transferred Senior Executive specified as of the Effective 
Time; or

	(ii) the failure of Parent or any of its subsidiaries to pay when due 
such Transferred Senior Executive any salary or established bonus target 
in accordance with the terms specified as of the Effective Time or the 
reduction by Parent or any of its subsidiaries of such Transferred Senior 
Executive's salary; or

	(iii) the relocation of the office of Parent or any of its subsidiaries 
at which such Transferred Senior Executive is employed as specified as 
of the Effective Date (the "Employment Location") to a location more 
than seventy-five (75) miles away from the Employment Location, or 
Parent or any of its subsidiaries requiring such Transferred Senior 
Executive to be based more than seventy-five (75) miles away from the 
Employment Location (except for required travel on Parent's or any of 
its subsidiaries' business to an extent substantially consistent with such 
Transferred Senior Executive's business travel obligations);

which, in any such case, is not remedied within thirty (30) days after 
receipt of written notice from such Transferred Senior Executive 
specifically delineating each such act and setting forth such Transferred 
Senior Executive's intentions to resign if such breach is not duly 
remedied, provided that if the specified breach cannot reasonably be 
remedied withinsaid thirty (30) day period and Parent commences 
reasonable steps within said thirty (30) day period to remedy such 
breach and diligently continues such steps thereafter until a remedy is 
effected, such breach shall not constitute "Good Reason".

		"Governmental Authority" means any United States federal, 
state or local or any foreign government, governmental, regulatory or 
administrative authority, agency or commission or any court, tribunal, 
or judicial or arbitral body.

		"Governmental Order" means any order, writ, judgment, 
injunction, decree, stipulation, determination or award entered by or 
with any Governmental Authority.

		"Guaranteed Debt" means all Indebtedness of the Company that 
is personally guaranteed by the Principal Shareholder.

		"Hazardous Materials" means (a) petroleum and petroleum 
products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, urea 
formaldehyde foam insulation, transformers or other equipment that 
contain polychlorinated biphenyls, and radon gas, and (b) any other 
chemicals, materials or substances defined or regulated as "hazardous" or 
"toxic" or words of similar import, under any applicable Environmental 
Law.

		"HSR Act" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust 
Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations 
promulgated thereunder.










				34
<PAGE>

		"Indebtedness" means, without duplication with respect to any 
Person, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all 
obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or 
services (other than trade payables created in the ordinary course of 
business), (c) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional 
sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired 
by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or 
lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to 
repossession or sale of such property), (d) all obligations of such 
Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance 
with U.S. GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (e) all obligations, 
contingent or otherwise, of such Person under acceptance, letter of credit 
or similar facilities, (f) all obligations of such Person to purchase, 
redeem, retire, defease or otherwise acquire for value any capital stock of 
such Person or any warrants, rights or options to acquire such capital 
stock, valued, in the case of redeemable preferred stock, at the greater of 
its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and 
unpaid dividends, (g) all Indebtedness of others referred to in clauses (a) 
through (e) above guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by 
such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person 
through an agreement (i) to pay or purchase such Indebtedness or to 
advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such 
Indebtedness, (ii) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, 
or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the 
debtor to make payment of suchIndebtedness or to assure the holder of 
such Indebtedness against loss, (iii) to supply funds to or in any other 
manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for 
property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or 
such services are rendered), and (h) all Indebtedness referred to in clauses 
(a) through (e) above secured by (or for which the holder of such 
Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be 
secured by) any Encumbrance on property (including, without 
limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even 
though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment 
of such Indebtedness.

		"Intellectual Property" means all of the following:  (i) U.S. 
and foreign registered and unregistered trademarks, trade dress, service 
marks, logos, trade names, corporate names and all registrations and 
applications to register the same (the "Trademarks"); (ii) issued U.S. 
and foreign patents and pending patent applications, patent disclosures, 
and any and all divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, reissues, 
reexaminations, and extension thereof, any counterparts claiming 
priority therefrom, utility models, patents of importation/confirmation, 
certificates of invention and like statutory rights (the "Patents"); (iii) 
U.S. and foreign registered and unregistered copyrights (including, but 
not limited to, those in computer software and databases) rights of 
publicity and all registrations and applications to register the same (the 
"Copyrights"); (iv) U.S. and foreign rights in any semiconductor chip 
product works or "mask works" as such term is defined in 17 U.S.C. 
901, et seq. and any registrations or applications therefor ("Mask 
Works"); (v) all categories of trade secrets as defined in the Uniform 
Trade Secrets Act including, but not limited to, business information; 
(vi) all License and agreements pursuant to which the Company has 
acquired rights in or to any Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights or Mask 
Works, or Licenses and agreements pursuant to which the Company has 
Licensed or transferred the right to use any of the foregoing 
("Licenses").

		"IRS" means the Internal Revenue Service of the United 
States.

		"Law" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, 
ordinance, regulation, rule, code, order, other requirement or rule of law.

		"Liabilities" means any and all debts, liabilities and 
obligations, whether accrued or fixed, absolute or contingent, matured 
or unmatured or determined or determinable, including, without 
limitation, those arising under any Law (including, without limitation, 
any Environmental Law), Action or Governmental Order and those 
arising under any contract, agreement, arrangement, commitment or 
undertaking.
				35
<PAGE>

		"Material Adverse Effect" means any circumstance, change in, 
or effect on the Business that, individually or in the aggregate with any 
other circumstances, changes in, or effects on, the Business is, or could 
reasonably be expected to be, materially adverse to the business, 
operations, assets or Liabilities, results of operations or the financial 
condition of the Company and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; 
provided, however, that a Material Adverse Effect will not exist as a 
result of circumstances that are demonstrated to haveresulted directly 
from the public announcement of the Merger or the performance by the 
Company of its obligations hereunder.

		"Material Contracts" has the meaning specified in Section 
3.15(a).

		"Merger Consideration" means the Common Merger 
Consideration, the Series A Merger Consideration, the Series B Merger 
Consideration, the Series C Merger Consideration and the Series D 
Merger Consideration, collectively.

		"Multiemployer Plan" has the meaning specified in Section 
3.21(b).

		"Multiple Employer Plan" has the meaning specified in 
Section 3.21(b).

		"NNM" means the Nasdaq National Market.

		"Parent" has the meaning specified in the recitals to this 
Agreement.

		"Parent Common Stock" means the common stock of Parent.

		"Permits" has the meaning specified in Section 3.14(a).

		"Permitted Encumbrances" means such of the following as to 
which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure 
proceeding shall have been commenced:  (a) liens for taxes, assessments 
and governmental charges or levies not yet due and payable or for taxes, 
assessments and governmental charges or levies that are being contested 
in good faith; (b) Encumbrances imposed by law, such as 
materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's liens 
and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business 
securing obligations that (i) are not overdue for a period of more than 
30 days and (ii) are not in excess of $100,000 in the aggregate at any 
time; (c) pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' 
compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or 
statutory obligations; and (d) minor survey exceptions, reciprocal 
easement agreements and other customary encumbrances on and 
imperfections to title to real property and other Encumbrances that (i) 
do not render title to the property encumbered thereby uninsurable and 
(ii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect 
the value or use of such property for its current purposes; and (e) 
Encumbrances related to Funded Debt and purchase money mortgages 
and conditional sales contracts entered into in the ordinary course of 
business.

		"Person" means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, 
association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well 
as any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under 
Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
		"Plans" has the meaning specified in Section 3.21(a).

		"Principal Shareholder" means Steven P. Jobs.

		"RCRA" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 
42 U.S.C. SS 6901 et seq., as amended through the date hereof.

		"Receivables" means any and all accounts receivable, notes and 
other amounts receivable by the Company or any Subsidiary from third 
parties, including, without limitation, customers, arising before the 
Effective Time, whether or not in the ordinary course, together with all 
unpaid financing charges accrued thereon.
				36
<PAGE>

		"Regulations" means the Treasury Regulations (including 
Temporary Regulations) promulgated by the United States Department 
of Treasury with respect to the Code or other federal tax statutes.

		"Release" means disposing, discharging, injecting, spilling, 
leaking, leaching, dumping, emitting, escaping, emptying, seeping, 
placing and the like into or upon any land or water or air or otherwise 
entering into the Environment.

		"Series A Merger Consideration" means (i) an amount of cash 
equal to the amount by which the unadjusted Common Merger 
Consideration exceeds the product of (A) the Share Number and (B) the 
Effective Time Parent Price and (ii) that number (the "Share Number") 
of shares of Parent Common Stock equal to the quotient of 1,500,000 
and the number of outstanding shares of Company Series A Preferred 
Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time, as adjusted pursuant to 
Section 2.06(h).

		"Series B Merger Consideration" means $10.00, as adjusted 
pursuant to Section 2.06(h).

		"Series C Merger Consideration" means $10.03009027, as 
adjusted pursuant to Section 2.06(h).

		"Series D Merger Consideration" means the $10.00, as 
adjusted pursuant to Section 2.06(h).

		"Stock Option Plan" means the NeXT Software, Inc. 1990 
Stock Option Plan.

		"Subsidiaries" means all corporations, partnerships, joint 
ventures, associations and other entities controlled by the Company 
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

		"Tax" or "Taxes" means any and all taxes, levies, duties, 
tariffs, imposts, and other similar fees or charges of any kind, foreign or 
domestic, (together with any and all interest, penalties, additions to tax 
and additional amounts imposed with respect thereto), imposed by any 
government or taxing authority, including, without limitation:  taxes 
on or with respect to income, franchises, windfall or other profits, gross 
receipts, property, sales, use, capital stock, payroll, employment, social 
security, workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, or net 
worth; taxes or other charges in the nature of excise, withholding, ad 
valorem, stamp, transfer, value added, or gains taxes; license, 
registration and documentation fees; and customs duties and tariffs.

		"Unvested Company Stock Options" means Company Stock 
Options that are not exercisable immediately prior to the Effective 
Time.

		"U.S. GAAP" means United States generally accepted 
accounting principles and practices as in effect from time to time and 
applied consistently throughout the periods involved.

		"Vested Company Stock Options" means Company Stock 
Options that are exercisable immediately prior to the Effective Time.

				37
<PAGE>

ARTICLE II

THE MERGER

		SECTION 2.01.  The Merger.  At the Effective Time (as 
defined in Section 2.02) and subject to and upon the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement and California Law, Merger Sub will be 
merged with and into the Company, the separate corporate existence of 
Merger Sub shall cease, and the Company shall continue as the 
surviving corporation.  The Company as the surviving corporation after 
the Merger is hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Surviving 
Corporation".

		SECTION 2.02.  Effective Time.  As promptly as practicable 
after the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article 
VIII, the parties hereto shall cause the Merger to be consummated by 
filing an agreement of merger in the form attached hereto as Annex A 
(the "Agreement of Merger") with the Secretary of State of the State of 
California, in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of, California Law (the time of such filing or 
such later mutually agreed upon time as may be set forth in the 
Agreement of Merger being the "Effective Time").

		SECTION 2.03.  Effect of the Merger.  At the Effective Time, 
the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in the applicable provisions 
of California Law.  Withoutlimiting the generality of the foregoing, 
and subject thereto, at the Effective Time all the property, rights, 
privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall 
vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of 
the Company and Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and 
duties of the Surviving Corporation.

		SECTION 2.04.  Articles of Incorporation; Bylaws.  (a)  
Articles of Incorporation.  Unless otherwise determined by Parent prior 
to the Effective Time, at the Effective Time the Articles of 
Incorporation of Merger Sub, as in effect immediately prior to the 
Effective Time, shall be the Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving 
Corporation until thereafter amended as provided by law and such 
Articles of Incorporation; provided, however, that Article I of the 
Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation shall be amended 
to read as follows:  "The name of the corporation is NeXT Software, 
Inc.".

		(b)	Bylaws.  The Bylaws of Merger Sub, as in effect 
immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the Bylaws of the 
Surviving Corporation until thereafter amended as provided by 
California Law, the Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving 
Corporation and such Bylaws.

		SECTION 2.05.  Directors and Officers.  The directors of 
Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the initial 
directors of the Surviving Corporation, each to hold office in accordance 
with the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Surviving 
Corporation, and the officers of Merger Sub immediately prior to the 
Effective Time shall be the initial officers of the Surviving 
Corporation, in each case until their respective successors are duly 
elected or appointed and qualified.

		SECTION 2.06.  Effect on Capital Stock.  At the Effective 
Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of 
Parent, Merger Sub and the Company or the holders of any of the 
following securities:

	(a)	Conversion of Company Common Stock.  Each share of 
Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to 
the Effective Time (other than any such shares to be canceled pursuant 
to Section 2.06(f) or constituting Dissenting Shares (as defined and to 
the extent provided in Section 2.07(a)) will be cancelled and 
extinguished and be converted automatically into the right to receive the 
Common Merger Consideration in the manner provided in Section 
2.08, upon surrender of the certificate representing such share of 
Company Common Stock.
				38
<PAGE>


	(b)	Conversion of Company Series A Preferred Stock.  Each share 
of Company Series A Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
immediately prior to the Effective Time (excluding any such shares to 
be cancelled pursuant to Section 2.06(f) or constituting Dissenting 
Shares) shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the 
part of the holder thereof, be converted into the right to receive 
theSeries A Merger Consideration in the manner provided in Section 
2.08, upon surrender of the certificate representing such share of 
Company Series A Preferred Stock.

	(c)	Conversion of Company Series B Preferred Stock.  Each share 
of Company Series B Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
immediately prior to the Effective Time (excluding any such shares to 
be cancelled pursuant to Section 2.06(f) or constituting Dissenting 
Shares) shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the 
part of the holder thereof, be converted into the right to receive the 
Series B Merger Consideration in the manner provided in Section 2.08, 
upon surrender of the certificate representing such share of Company 
Series B Preferred Stock.

	(d)	Conversion of Company Series C Preferred Stock.  Each share 
of Company Series C Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
immediately prior to the Effective Time (excluding any such shares to 
be cancelled pursuant to Section 2.06(f) or constituting Dissenting 
Shares) shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the 
part of the holder thereof, be converted into the right to receive the 
Series C Merger Consideration in the manner provided in Section 2.08, 
upon surrender of the certificate representing such share of Company 
Series C Preferred Stock.

	(e)	Conversion of Company Series D Preferred Stock.  Each share 
of Company Series D Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
immediately prior to the Effective Time (excluding any such shares to 
be cancelled pursuant to Section 2.06(f) or constituting Dissenting 
Shares) shall, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the 
part of the holder thereof, be converted into the right to receive the 
Series D Merger Consideration in the manner provided in Section 2.08, 
upon surrender of the certificate representing such share of Company 
Series D Preferred Stock.

	(f)	Cancellation of Treasury Stock and Parent-Owned Stock.  Each 
share of Company Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock held 
in the treasury of the Company and each share of Company Common 
Stock and Company Preferred Stock owned by Parent or any direct or 
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Parent or of the Company 
immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be cancelled and 
extinguished without any conversion thereof.

	(g)	Assumption of Stock Option Plan.  The Stock Option Plan 
and all Company Stock Options then outstanding under the Stock 
Option Plan shall be assumed by Parent subject to the provisions of 
Article VI.

	(h)	Adjustments to Merger Consideration.  The applicable Merger 
Consideration per share of Company Common Stock, Company Series 
A Preferred Stock, Company Series B Preferred Stock, Company Series 
C Preferred Stock and Company Series D Preferred Stock shall be 
adjusted to reflect fully the effect of any stock split, reverse split, stock 
dividend (including any dividend or distribution of securities convertible 
into Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock), 
reorganization, recapitalization or other like change with respect to 
Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock occurring after 
the date hereof and prior to the Effective Time.

	(i)	Fractional Shares.  No fraction of a share of Parent Common 
Stock will be issued, but in lieu thereof each holder of shares of 
Company Series A Preferred Stock who would otherwise be entitled to 
a fraction of a share of Parent Common Stock (after aggregating all 
fractional shares of Parent Common Stock to be received by such 
holder) shall receive from Parent an amount of cash (rounded to the 
nearest whole cent) equal to the product of (i) such fraction, multiplied 
by (ii) the Effective Time Parent Price.
				39
<PAGE>

	(j)	Capital Stock of Merger Sub.  Each share of common stock of 
Merger Sub issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective 
Time will be cancelled and extinguished and be converted automatically 
into the right to receive one newly and validly issued, fully paid and 
nonassessable share of common stock of the Surviving Corporation.  
Each stock certificate of Merger Sub evidencing ownership of any such 
shares shall continue to evidence ownership of such shares of capital 
stock of the Surviving Corporation.

		SECTION 2.07.  Dissenting Shares.  (a) Notwithstanding any 
provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any shares of capital stock 
of the Company held by a holder who has exercised dissenters' rights for 
such shares in accordance with California Law and who, as of the 
Effective Time, has not effectively withdrawn or lost such dissenters' 
rights ("Dissenting Shares"), shall not be converted into or represent a 
right to receive Merger Consideration pursuant to Section 2.06, but the 
holder thereof shall only be entitled to such rights as are granted by 
California Law.

		(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), if 
any holder of Dissenting Shares shall effectively withdraw or lose 
(through failure to perfect or otherwise) his dissenters' rights, then, as 
of the later of Effective Time or the occurrence of such event, such 
holder's shares shall automatically be converted into and represent only 
the right to receive the applicable Merger Consideration, without 
interest thereon, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates 
representing such Dissenting Shares.

		(c)	The Company shall give Parent (i) prompt notice of 
any written demands received by the Company to require the Company 
to purchase shares of capital stock of the Company, withdrawals of 
such demands, and any other instruments served pursuant to California 
Law and received by the Company and (ii) the opportunity to participate 
in all negotiations and proceedings with respect to such demands.  The 
Company shall not, except with the prior written consent of Parent, 
voluntarily make any payment with respect to any such demands or 
offer to settle or settle any such demands.

		SECTION 2.08.  Surrender of Certificates.  (a)  Exchange 
Agent.  Parent shall supply, or shall cause to be supplied, to or for the 
account of a bank or trust company designated by Parent (the "Exchange 
Agent"), in trust for the benefit of the holders of Company Common 
Stock and Company Preferred Stock (other than Dissenting Shares), for 
exchange in accordance with this Section 2.08, through the Exchange 
Agent, (i) cash payable pursuant to Section 2.06 and (ii) certificates 
evidencing the shares of Parent Common Stock issuable pursuant to 
Section 2.06, in each case in exchange for outstanding shares of 
Company Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock.

		(b)	Parent to Provide Parent Common Stock.  At or prior 
to the Effective Time, Parent shall make available to the Exchange 
Agent for exchange and payment in accordance with this Article II, 
through the procedures set forth in the Exchange Agent Agreement, the 
shares of Parent Common Stock issuable pursuant to, and the cash 
payable pursuant to, Section 2.06 and in accordance with the Exchange 
Agent Agreement.

		(c)	Exchange Procedures.  The Surviving Corporation 
shall, in accordance with the Exchange Agent Agreement, cause to be 
delivered or mailed to each holder of record of a certificate or certificates 
(the "Certificates") which immediately prior to the Effective Time 
represented outstanding shares of Company Common Stock or 
Company Preferred Stock whose shares were converted into the right to 
receive Merger Consideration pursuant to Section 2.06, (i) a letter of 
transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk 
of loss and title to the Certificates or shall pass, only upon delivery of 
the Certificates to the Exchange Agent and shall be in such form and 
have such other provisions as Parent may reasonably specify) and (ii) 
instructions for use in effecting the surrender of the Certificates in 
exchange for the cash payable to such holder pursuant to Section 2.06 
and certificates representing shares of Parent Common Stock payable to 
such holder pursuant to Section 2.06, if any. Upon surrender of a 
Certificate for cancellation to the Exchange Agent or to such other 
agent or agents as may be appointed by 
				40
<PAGE>

Parent, together with such letter of transmittal, duly completed and 
validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, the holder 
of such Certificate shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor the 
cash payable to such holder pursuant to Section 2.06 and a certificate 
representing the number of whole shares of Parent Common Stock and 
payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, which such holder has the 
right to receive pursuant to Section 2.06, and the Certificate so 
surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled.  Until so surrendered, each 
outstanding Certificatethat, prior to the Effective Time, represented 
shares of Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock will 
be deemed from and after the Effective Time, for all corporate purposes, 
other than the payment of dividends, to evidence the ownership of the 
number of full shares of Parent Common Stock, if any, into which 
such shares of Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock 
shall have been so converted, the right to receive an amount in cash in 
lieu of the issuance of any fractional shares in accordance with Section 
2.06(i), and the right to receive cash in the manner provided by Section 
2.06 hereof.

		(d)	Distributions With Respect to Unexchanged Shares.  
No dividends or other distributions declared or made after the Effective 
Time with respect to Parent Common Stock with a record date after the 
Effective Time will be paid to the holder of any unsurrendered 
Certificate with respect to the shares of Parent Common Stock 
represented thereby until the holder of record of such Certificate shall 
surrender such Certificate.  Subject to applicable law, following 
surrender of any such Certificate, there shall be paid to the record holder 
of the certificates representing whole shares of Parent Common Stock 
issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (i) at the time of such 
surrender, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record 
date after the Effective Time theretofore paid with respect to such whole 
shares of Parent Common Stock and (ii) at the appropriate payment 
date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date 
after the Effective Time but prior to such surrender and a payment date 
subsequent to such surrender payable with respect to such shares of 
Parent Common Stock.

		(e)	Transfers of Ownership.  If any certificate for shares 
of Parent Common Stock is to be issued in a name other than that in 
which the certificate surrendered in exchange therefor is registered, it 
will be a condition of the issuance thereof that the certificate so 
surrendered will be properly endorsed and otherwise in proper form for 
transfer and that the person requesting such exchange will have paid to 
Parent or any agent designated by it any transfer or other taxes required 
by reason of the issuance of a certificate for shares of Parent Common 
Stock in any name other than that of  the registered holder of the 
certificate surrendered, or established to the satisfaction of Parent or any 
agent designated by it that such tax has been paid or is not payable.

		(f)	No Liability.  Notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in this Section 2.08, none of the Exchange Agent, the 
Surviving Corporation or any party hereto shall be liable to a holder of 
Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock for any amount 
properly paid to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned 
property, escheat or similar law.

		SECTION 2.09.  No Further Ownership Rights in Company 
Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock.  All cash paid or payable 
in respect of shares of Company Common Stock and Company 
Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms hereof (together with all 
shares of Parent Common Stock issued upon the surrender for exchange 
of shares ofCompany Series A Preferred Stock in accordance with the 
terms hereof) shall be deemed to have been issued in full satisfaction of 
all rights pertaining to such shares of Company Common Stock and 
Company Preferred Stock, and there shall be no further registration of 
transfers on the records of the Surviving Corporation of shares of 
Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock which were 
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.  If, after the 
Effective Time, Certificates are presented to the Surviving Corporation 
for any reason, they shall be cancelled and exchanged as provided in this 
Article II.




				41
<PAGE>

		SECTION 2.10.  Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.  In 
the event any certificates evidencing shares of Company Common 
Stock or Company Preferred Stock shall have been lost, stolen or 
destroyed, the Exchange Agent shall issue in exchange for such lost, 
stolen or destroyed certificates, upon the making of an affidavit of that 
fact by the holder thereof, such shares of Parent Common Stock, cash 
for fractional shares, if any, as may be required pursuant to Section 
2.06(i) and the cash payable in the manner specified in Section 2.06 
hereof; provided, however, that Parent may, in its discretion and as a 
condition precedent to the issuance and payment thereof, require the 
owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificates to deliver a bond in 
such sum as it may reasonably direct as indemnity against any claim 
that may be made against Parent or the Exchange Agent with respect to 
the certificates alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.

		SECTION 2.11.  Taking of Necessary Action; Further Action.  
If, at any time after the Effective Time, any such further action is 
necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes of this Agreement and 
to vest the Surviving Corporation with full right, title and possession 
to all assets, property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the 
Company and Parent, the officers and directors of the Company and 
Parent are fully authorized in the name of their respective corporations 
or otherwise to take, and will take, all such lawful and necessary action.


ARTICLE III

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
OF THE COMPANY

		As an inducement to Parent to enter into this Agreement, the 
Company hereby represents and warrants to Parent as follows:

		SECTION 3.01.  Organization, Authority and Qualification of 
the Company.  The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly 
existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of California 
and has all necessary corporate power and authority to own, operate or 
lease the properties and assets now owned, operated or leased by it and 
to carry on the Business as it has been and is currently conducted.  
Except as set forth inSection 3.01 of the Disclosure Schedule, the 
Company is duly licensed or qualified to do business and is in good 
standing in each jurisdiction in which the failure to be licensed or 
qualified would have a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company has not 
taken any action that in any respect conflicts with, constitutes a default 
under or results in a violation of any provision of its Articles of 
Incorporation or Bylaws.  True and correct copies of the Articles of 
Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company, each as in effect on the date 
hereof, have been made available or delivered by the Company to 
Parent.  This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the 
Company, and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by 
Parent and Merger Sub) this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and 
binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in 
accordance with its terms except as such enforceability may be limited 
by principles of public policy and subject to the laws of general 
application relating to bankruptcy, insolvency and the relief of debtors 
and rules of law governing specific performance, injunctive relief or 
other equitable remedies.












				42
<PAGE>

		SECTION 3.02.  Capital Stock of the Company; Ownership 
of the Shares.  (a)  The authorized capital stock of the Company 
consists of 100,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock, 
14,000,000 shares of Company Series A Preferred Stock, 5,000,000 
shares of Company Series B Preferred Stock, 9,412,500 shares of 
Company Series C Preferred Stock and 232,000 shares of Company 
Series D Preferred Stock.  As of the date hereof, (i) 4,028,930 shares of 
Company Common Stock are issued and outstanding, all of which are 
validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, (ii) 10,050,000 shares of 
Company Common Stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to 
employee stock options granted pursuant to the Stock Option Plan, (iii) 
7,626,901 Company Stock Options are outstanding thereunder, (iv) 
12,200,000 shares of Company Series A Preferred Stock are issued and 
outstanding, all of which are validly issued, fully paid and 
nonassessable, (v) 5,000,000 shares of Company Series B Preferred 
Stock are issued and outstanding, all of which are validly issued, fully 
paid and nonassessable, (vi) 9,012,500 shares of Company Series C 
Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding, all of which are validly 
issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and (vii) 232,000 shares of 
Company Series D Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding, all of 
which are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.  None of the 
issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock or 
Company Preferred Stock was issued in violation of any preemptive 
rights.  Except for the Stock Option Plan and except as disclosed in 
Section 3.02(a)(i) of the Disclosure Schedule, there are no options, 
warrants, convertible securities or other rights, agreements, 
arrangements or commitments of any character relating to the capital 
stock of the Company to which the Company is a party or obligating 
the Company to issue or sell any shares of capital stock of, or any 
other interest in, the Company.  There are no outstanding contractual 
obligations of the Company to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire 
any shares of Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock or 
to provide funds to, or make any investment (in the form of a loan, 
capital contribution or otherwise) in, any other Person.  Except as 
disclosed in Section 3.02(a)(ii) of the Disclosure Schedule, there are no 
voting trusts, stockholder agreements, proxies or other agreements 
orunderstandings in effect with respect to the voting or transfer of any 
of the Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock.

		(b)	Except as set forth in Section 3.02(b) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, the stock register of the Company accurately 
records:  (i) the name and last known address of each owner of record of 
shares of capital stock of the Company and (ii) the certificate number of 
each certificate evidencing shares of capital stock issued by the 
Company, the number of shares evidenced by each such certificate, the 
date of issuance thereof and, in the case of cancellation, the date of 
cancellation.

		SECTION 3.03.  Subsidiaries.  (a)  Section 3.03(a) of the 
Disclosure Schedule sets forth a true and complete list of all 
Subsidiaries, listing for each Subsidiary its name, type of entity, the 
jurisdiction and date of its incorporation or organization, its authorized 
capital stock, partnership capital or equivalent, the number and type of 
its issued and outstanding shares of capital stock, partnership interests 
or similar ownership interests and the current ownership of such shares, 
partnership interests or similar ownership interests by the Company and 
its Subsidiaries.

		(b)	There are no other corporations, partnerships, joint 
ventures, associations or other similar entities in which the Company 
owns, of record or beneficially, any direct or indirect equity or other 
interest or any right (contingent or otherwise) to acquire the same.

		(c)	Except as set forth in Section 3.03(c) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, each Subsidiary that is a corporation:  (i) is a 
corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its 
jurisdiction of incorporation, (ii) has all necessary corporate power and 
authority to own, operate or lease the properties and assets owned, 
operated or leased by such Subsidiary and to carry on its business as it 
has been and is currently conducted by such Subsidiary and (iii) is duly 
licensed or qualified to do business and is in good standing in each 
jurisdiction in which the properties owned or leased by it or the 
operation of its business makes such licensing or qualification 
necessary, except for, in each of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), such failures 
which, when taken together with all other such failures, would not have 
a Material Adverse Effect.  Each Subsidiary that is not a corporation:  
(i) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its 
				43
<PAGE>

jurisdiction of organization, (ii) has all necessary power and authority to 
own, operate or lease the material properties and material assets owned, 
operated or leased by such Subsidiary and to carry on its business as it 
has been and is currently conducted by such Subsidiary and (iii) is duly 
licensed or qualified to do business and is in good standing in each 
jurisdiction in which the properties owned or leased by it or the 
operation of its business makes such licensing or qualification 
necessary, except for, in each of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), such failures 
which, when taken together with all other such failures, would not have 
a Material Adverse Effect.

		(d)	Other than directors' qualifying shares in foreign 
jurisdictions, all the outstanding shares of capital stock of each 
Subsidiary that is a corporation are validly issued, fully paid, 
nonassessable and free of preemptive rights and are owned by the 
Company, whether directly or indirectly, free and clear of all 
Encumbrances.

		(e)	There are no options, warrants, convertible securities, 
or other rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments of any 
character to which Company or any Subsidiary is a party obligating the 
Company or any Subsidiary to issue or sell any shares of capital stock 
of, or any other interest in, any Subsidiary.

		(f)	No Subsidiary has taken any action that in any 
respect conflicts with, constitutes a default under or results in a 
violation of any provision of its charter or by-laws (or similar 
organizational documents) except for such actions which, when taken 
together with all other such actions, would not have a Material Adverse 
Effect.  True and complete copies of the charter and by-laws (or similar 
organizational documents), in each case as in effect on the date hereof, 
of each Subsidiary have been made available or delivered by the 
Company to Parent.

		(g)	There are no voting trusts, stockholder agreements, 
proxies or other agreements or understandings in effect with respect to 
the voting or transfer of any shares of capital stock of or any other 
interests in any Subsidiary.

		(h)	The stock register of each Subsidiary that is a 
corporation accurately records:  (i) the record owners of capital stock of 
such Subsidiary and (ii) the certificate number of each certificate 
evidencing shares of capital stock issued by such Subsidiary, the 
number of shares evidenced each such certificate, the date of issuance 
thereof and, in the case of cancellation, the date of cancellation.

		SECTION 3.04.  Corporate Books and Records.  Complete 
and accurate copies of all the minute books and of the stock register of 
the Company and each Subsidiary have been provided or made available 
by the Company to Parent.

		SECTION 3.05.  No Conflict.  Subject to approval of the 
Merger and this Agreement by the Company's shareholders (which at a 
minimum shall be provided by the written consent of the Principal 
Shareholder), assuming that all consents, approvals, authorizations and 
other actions described in Section 3.06 have been obtained and all 
filings and notifications listed in Section 3.06 of the Disclosure 
Schedule have been made, the execution, delivery and performance of 
this Agreement by the Company do not and will not (a) violate, 
conflict with or result in the breach of any provision of the charter or 
by-laws (or similar organizational documents) of the Company or any 
Subsidiary, (b) conflict with or violate any Law or Governmental Order 
applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary (other than conflicts and 
violations which could not reasonably be expected to have a 
MaterialAdverse Effect or as would occur solely as a result of the 
identity or the legal or regulatory status of Parent or any of its 
Affiliates), or (c) except as set forth in Section 3.05(c) of the Disclosure 
Schedule, conflict with, result in any breach of, constitute a default (or 
event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would 
become a default) under, require any consent under, or give to others any 
rights of termination, amendment, acceleration, suspension, revocation 
or cancellation of, or result in the creation of any Encumbrance (other 
than a Permitted Encumbrance) on any of the assets or properties of the 
Company or any Subsidiary 

				44
<PAGE>

pursuant to, any note, bond, mortgage or indenture, contract, 
agreement, lease, sublease, license, permit, franchise or other 
instrument or arrangement to which the Company or any Subsidiary is 
a party or by which any of such assets or properties is bound or 
affected.

		SECTION 3.06.  Governmental Consents and Approvals.  The 
execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company 
do not and will not require any consent, approval, authorization or other 
order of, action by, filing with or notification to any Governmental 
Authority, except (a) as described in Section 3.06 of the Disclosure 
Schedule, (b) the notification requirements of the HSR Act, (c) the 
filing of the Agreement of Merger and (d) such other consents, the 
absence of which could not reasonably be expected to result in a 
Material Adverse Effect.

		SECTION 3.07.  Financial Information/Books and Records.  
(a) True and complete copies of (i) the audited consolidated balance sheet 
of the Company for each of the three fiscal years ended as of December 
31, 1995, December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1993, and the related 
audited consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, 
stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company, together with all 
related notes and schedules thereto, accompanied by the reports thereon 
of the Company's Accountants (collectively referred to herein as the 
"Financial Statements") and (ii) the unaudited consolidated balance sheet 
of the Company as of September 30, 1996 (the "Interim Balance 
Sheet"), and the related consolidated statements of income, retained 
earnings, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company, together 
with all related notes and schedules thereto (collectively referred to 
herein as the "Interim Financial Statement") have been made available 
or delivered by the Company to Parent.  The Financial Statements and 
the Interim Financial Statement (i) were prepared in accordance with the 
books of account and other financial records of the Company, (ii) 
present fairly the consolidated financial condition and results of 
operations of the Company and the Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof 
or for the periods covered thereby, (iii) have been prepared in accordance 
with U.S. GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the past practices 
of the Company and (iv) include all material adjustments (consisting 
only of normal recurring accruals) that are necessary for a fair 
presentation of the consolidated financial condition of the Company and 
the Subsidiaries and the results of the operations of the Company and 
the Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof or for the periods covered 
thereby, except that the unaudited Interim Financial Statement wasand 
is subject to normal and recurring year-end adjustments which were or 
were not expected to be material in amount.

		(b)	The books of account and other financial records of 
the Company and the Subsidiaries:  (i) reflect all items of income and 
expense and all assets and Liabilities required to be reflected therein in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the past 
practices of the Company and the Subsidiaries, respectively, (ii) are in 
all material respects complete and correct, and do not contain or reflect 
any material inaccuracies or discrepancies and (iii) have been maintained 
in accordance with good business and accounting practices.

		SECTION 3.08.  No Undisclosed Liabilities.  There are no 
Liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary required by U.S. GAAP 
to be recognized or disclosed on a consolidated balance sheet of the 
Company and the Subsidiaries in the notes thereto, other than 
Liabilities (i) reflected or reserved against on the Interim Balance Sheet, 
(ii) disclosed in Section 3.08 of the Disclosure Schedule or (iii) incurred 
since the date of the Interim Balance Sheet in the ordinary course of 
business, consistent with the past practice, of the Company and the 
Subsidiaries and which do not and could not reasonably be expected to 
have a Material Adverse Effect.  Reserves are reflected on the Interim 
Balance Sheet against all material Liabilities of the Company and the 
Subsidiaries in amounts that have been established on a basis consistent 
with the past practices of the Company and the Subsidiaries and in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP.





				45
<PAGE>

		SECTION 3.09.  Receivables; Inventory.  (a) Except to the 
extent, if any, reserved for on the Interim Balance Sheet, all Receivables 
reflected on the Interim Balance Sheet arose from the sale of inventory 
or services and in the ordinary course of business consistent with past 
practice and, except as reserved against on the Interim Balance Sheet, 
constitute, to the Company's knowledge, only valid, undisputed claims 
of the Company or a Subsidiary not subject to material and valid claims 
of set-off or other defenses or counterclaims other than normal cash 
discounts accrued in the ordinary course of business consistent with past 
practice.  All Receivables reflected on the Interim Balance Sheet 
(subject to the reserve for bad debts, if any, reflected on the Interim 
Balance Sheet) have been collected or are or could reasonably be 
expected to be collectible in the normal course, without resort to 
litigation or extraordinary collection activity.

		(b)	All of the inventories of the Company reflected on 
the Interim Balance Sheet and the Company's books and records on the 
date hereof were purchased, acquired or produced in the ordinary and 
regular course of business and in a manner consistent with the 
Company's regular inventory practices and are set forth on the 
Company's books and records in accordance with the practices and 
principals of the Company consistent with the method of treating said 
items in prior periods.  The presentation of inventory on the Interim 
BalanceSheet conforms to U.S. GAAP and such inventory is stated at 
the lower of cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or net 
realizable value.

		SECTION 3.10.  Conduct in the Ordinary Course; Absence of 
Certain Changes, Events and Conditions.  Since the date of the Interim 
Balance Sheet, except as disclosed in Section 3.10 of the Disclosure 
Schedule, the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries has been 
conducted in the ordinary course and consistent with past practice.  As 
amplification and not limitation of the foregoing, except as disclosed in 
Section 3.10 of the Disclosure Schedule, since the date of the Interim 
Balance Sheet, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has:

	(i)  permitted or allowed any of the material assets or material 
properties (whether tangible or intangible) of the Company or any 
Subsidiary to be subjected to any Encumbrance, other than Permitted 
Encumbrances and Encumbrances that will be released at or prior to the 
Effective Time;

	(ii)  except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past 
practice, discharged or otherwise obtained the release of any 
Encumbrance or paid or otherwise discharged any Liability, other than 
current liabilities reflected on the Interim Balance Sheet and current 
liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with 
past practice since the date of the Interim Balance Sheet;

	(iii) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past 
practice, made any loan to, guaranteed any Indebtedness of or otherwise 
incurred any Indebtedness on behalf of any Person;

	(iv) redeemed any of the capital stock or declared, made or paid any 
dividends or distributions (whether in cash, securities or other property) 
to the holders of capital stock of the Company or any Subsidiary or 
otherwise, other than dividends, distributions and redemptions declared, 
made or paid by any Subsidiary solely to the Company;

	(v)  made any material changes in the customary methods of 
operations of the Company or any Subsidiary, including, without 
limitation, practices and policies relating to manufacturing, purchasing, 
inventories, marketing, selling and pricing;

	(vi) merged with, entered into a consolidation with or acquired an 
interest of 5% or more in any Person or acquired a substantial portion 
of the assets or business of any Person or any division or line of 
business thereof, or otherwise acquired any assets material to the 
Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, other than in the 
ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
	(vii) made any capital expenditure or commitment for any capital 
expenditure in excess of $200,000 individually or $2,000,000 in the 
aggregate;
				46
<PAGE>

	(viii) sold, transferred, leased, subleased, licensed or otherwise 
disposed of any material properties or material assets, real, personal or 
mixed material to the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole 
but excluding the sale of inventories in the ordinary course of business 
consistent with past practice;

	(ix) except for exercises and conversions of securities outstanding 
on the date of this Agreement and customary stock option grants 
(covering no greater than 150,000 or, in the event that the Effective 
Time has not occurred by March 31, 1997, 300,000 shares of Company 
Common Stock) for new hires and existing employees consistent with 
past practice and issued or sold any capital stock, notes, bonds or other 
securities, or any option, warrant or other right to acquire the same, of, 
or any other interest in, the Company or any Subsidiary;

	(x)  entered into any material agreement, arrangement or transaction 
with any of its directors, officers, employees or shareholders (or with 
any relative, beneficiary, spouse or Affiliate of such Person);

	(xi) (A) other than as contemplated by this Agreement, granted any 
material increase, or announced any material increase, in the wages, 
salaries, compensation, bonuses, incentives, pension or other benefits 
payable by the Company or any Subsidiary to any of its employees, 
including, without limitation, any increase or change pursuant to any 
Plan or (B) established or increased or promised to increase any benefits 
under any Plan, in either case except as required by Law or any existing 
agreement and/or involving ordinary increases consistent with the past 
practices of the Company or such Subsidiary;

	(xii) materially written down or materially written up (or failed to 
write down or write up in accordance with U.S. GAAP consistent with 
past practice) the value of any inventories or Receivables or revalued 
any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary other than in the ordinary 
course of business consistent with past practice and in accordance with 
U.S. GAAP;

	(xiii) amended, terminated, cancelled or compromised any material 
claims of the Company or any Subsidiary or waived any other rights of 
substantial value to the Company or any Subsidiary;

	(xiv) made any change in any method of accounting or accounting 
practice or policy used by the Company or any Subsidiary, other than 
such changes required by U.S. GAAP;

	(xv)	allowed any Permit or Environmental Permit that was 
issued or relates to the Company or any Subsidiary or otherwise relates 
to any asset to lapse or terminate or failed to renew any such Permit or 
Environmental Permit or any insurance policy that is scheduled to 
terminate or expire within 45 calendar days of the Effective Time, 
except for such lapses, terminations or failures which could not 
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;

	(xvi) materially amended, modified or consented to the termination 
of, any Material Contract or the Company's or any Subsidiary's rights 
thereunder;

	(xvii) amended or restated the Articles of Incorporation or the 
Bylaws (or other organizational documents) of the Company or any 
Subsidiary;

	(xviii) terminated, discontinued, closed or disposed of any plant, 
facility or other business operation, or laid off any employees (other 
than layoffs of less than twenty (20) employees in any six-month 
period in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice) 
or implemented any early retirement, separation or program providing 
early retirement window benefits within the meaning of Section 
1.401(a)-4 of the Regulations or announced or planned any such action 
or program for the future;
				47
<PAGE>

	(xix) made any express or deemed election (other than an election 
pursuant to Section 341(f) of the Code) or settled or compromised any 
liability, with respect to Taxes of the Company or any Subsidiary;

	(xx) suffered any casualty loss or damage with respect to any asset 
which individually has a replacement cost of more than $500,000, 
whether or not such loss or damage shall have been covered by 
insurance;

	(xxi) received notice of any claim of ownership by a third party of 
the Owned Intellectual Property or of infringement by the Company of 
any third party's Intellectual Property rights;

	(xxii) materially changed the pricing or royalties set or charged by 
the Company to its customers or licensees or been the subject of a 
material change in pricing or royalties set or charged with regard to the 
Licensed Intellectual Property; or

	(xxiii) agreed, whether in writing or otherwise, to take any of the 
actions specified in this Section 3.10 except as is expressly 
contemplated by this Agreement.
		SECTION 3.11.  Litigation.  Except as set forth in Section 
3.11 of the Disclosure Schedule (which, with respect to each Action 
disclosed therein, sets forth:  the parties, nature of the proceeding, date 
and method commenced, amount of damages or other relief sought and, 
if applicable, paid or granted), there are no Actions by or against the 
Company or any Subsidiary (or by or against the Company or any 
Affiliate thereof and relating to the Company or any Subsidiary), or 
affecting any of the Assets, pending before any Governmental Authority 
(or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened to be brought by or 
before any Governmental Authority) that could reasonably be expected 
to have a Material Adverse Effect.  None of the matters disclosed in 
Section 3.11 of the Disclosure Schedule has or has had a Material 
Adverse Effect or could reasonably be expected to materially adversely 
affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the 
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.  Except as set 
forth in Section 3.11 of the Disclosure Schedule, none of the 
Company, the Subsidiaries nor any of the Assets nor the Company is 
subject to any Governmental Order (nor, to the knowledge of the 
Company are there any such Governmental Orders threatened to be 
imposed by any Governmental Authority) which has or has had a 
Material Adverse Effect since the date of the Interim Balance Sheet.

		SECTION 3.12.  Certain Interests.  (a) Except as disclosed in 
Section 3.12(a) of the Disclosure Schedule, no officer or director of the 
Company or any Subsidiary and no relative or spouse (or relative of 
such spouse) who resides with, any such officer or director:

	(i)  has any material direct or indirect financial interest in any 
competitor, supplier or customer of the Company or any Subsidiary, 
provided, however, that the ownership of debt securities or the 
ownership of equity securities representing no more than ten percent of 
the outstanding voting power of any competitor, supplier or customer, 
shall not be deemed to be a "financial interest" so long as the Person 
owning such securities has no other material connection or relationship 
with such competitor, supplier or customer;

	(ii) owns, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, or has any 
other material interest in any material tangible or intangible property 
which the Company or any Subsidiary uses or has used in the conduct 
of its business or otherwise; or

	(iii) has outstanding any material Indebtedness to the Company or 
any Subsidiary.






				48
<PAGE>

		(b)	Except as disclosed in Section 3.12(b) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has any 
material Liability or any other obligation of any nature whatsoever to 
any officer, director or shareholder of the Company or any Subsidiary or 
to any relative or spouse (or relative of such spouse) who resides with, 
or is a dependent of, any such officer, director or shareholder.

		SECTION 3.13.  Compliance with Laws.  (a) Except as set 
forth in Section 3.13(a) of the Disclosure Schedule, the Company and 
the Subsidiaries have each conducted and continue to conduct the 
Business in substantial compliance with all Laws and Governmental 
Orders applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary or any of the 
Assets, and neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in material 
violation of any such Law or Governmental Order.  To the knowledge 
of executive officers of the Company, none of the Company, any 
Subsidiary nor any officer, director, employee, agent or representative of 
the Company or any Subsidiary has, on behalf of the Company, 
furthered or supported any foreign boycott in violation of the Anti-
Boycott laws and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Export 
Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C.A. Appx S 2407, and 
regulations promulgated thereunder).

		(b)	Section 3.13(b) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth 
a brief description of each material Governmental Order applicable to 
the Company or any Subsidiary or any of the Assets, and no such 
Governmental Order has or has had a Material Adverse Effect.

		SECTION 3.14.  Environmental and Other Permits and 
Licenses; Related Matters.  (a)  Except as disclosed in Section 3.14(a)(i) 
of the Disclosure Schedule, the Company and the Subsidiaries currently 
hold and at all times have possessed all the health and safety and other 
permits, licenses, authorizations, certificates, exemptions and approvals 
of Governmental Authorities (collectively, "Permits"), including, 
without limitation, Environmental Permits, necessary or proper for the 
current use, occupancy and operation of each Asset of the Company and 
the Subsidiaries, and all such Permits are in full force and effect.  
Section 3.14(a)(ii) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth those Permits 
the absence of which would have a Material Adverse Effect.  Except as 
disclosed in Section 3.14(a)(iii) of the Disclosure Schedule, to the 
Company's knowledge, there is no existing practice, action or activity 
of the Company or any Subsidiary and, to the Company's knowledge, 
no existing condition of the Assets of the Company or any Subsidiary 
which will give rise to any civil or criminal Liability under, or violate 
or prevent compliance with, any health or occupational safety or other 
applicable Law.  None of the Company or any Subsidiary has received 
any notice from any Governmental Authority revoking, cancelling, 
rescinding, materially modifying or refusing to renew any Permit or 
providing written notice of violations under any Law.  Except as 
disclosed in Section 3.14(a)(iv) of the Disclosure Schedule, the 
Company and each Subsidiary is in all material respects in compliance 
with the Permits and the requirements of the Permits.  Section 
3.14(a)(v) of the Disclosure Schedule identifies all Permits that are 
nontransferable or which will require the consent of any Governmental 
Authority in the event of the consummation of the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement.

		(b)	Except as disclosed in Section 3.14(b) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, (i) to the knowledge of the Company, Hazardous 
Materials have not been treated, stored, disposed of or transported to or 
from, or Released on any real property owned or leased by theCompany 
or any Subsidiary (the "Real Property") or, to the knowledge of the 
Company, any property adjoining any such real property; (ii) the 
Company and the Subsidiaries have disposed of all wastes, including 
those wastes containing Hazardous Materials, in compliance with all 
applicable Environmental Laws and Environmental Permits; (iii) there 
are no past, pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened 
Environmental Claims against the Company, any Subsidiary, or any 
Real Property; (iv) no Real Property or, to the knowledge of the 
Company, any property adjoining any Real Property, is listed or 
proposed for listing on the National Priorities List under CERCLA or 
on the CERCLIS or any analogous state list of sites requiring 
investigation or cleanup; and (v) to the Company's knowledge, neither 
the Company nor any Subsidiary has transported or arranged for the 

				49
<PAGE>

transportation of any Hazardous Materials to any location that is listed 
or proposed for listing on the National Priorities List under CERCLA 
or on the CERCLIS or any analogous state list or which is the subject 
of any Environmental Claim.

		(c)	Except as disclosed in Section 3.14(c) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, to the Company's knowledge, there are no 
circumstances with respect to any Real Property or other Asset or the 
operation of the Company's business which could reasonably be 
anticipated (i) to form the basis of an Environmental Claim against the 
Company, any Subsidiary or any Real Property or Asset or (ii) to cause 
such Real Property or Asset to be subject to any restrictions on 
ownership, occupancy, use or transferability under any applicable 
Environmental Law.

		SECTION 3.15.  Material Contracts.  (a)  Section 3.15(a) of 
the Disclosure Schedule lists each of the following material contracts 
and material agreements (including, without limitation, oral and 
informal arrangements) of the Company and the Subsidiaries (such 
contracts and agreements, together with all material contracts, 
agreements, leases and subleases concerning the management or 
operation of any Real Property (including, without limitation, material 
brokerage contracts) listed or otherwise disclosed in Section 3.17(a) or 
3.17(b) of the Disclosure Schedule to which the Company or any 
Subsidiary is a party and all material agreements relating to Intellectual 
Property set forth in Section 3.18(a) of the Disclosure Schedule, being 
"Material Contracts"):

	(i)  each contract or agreement for the purchase of inventory, spare 
parts, other materials or personal property with any supplier or for the 
furnishing of services to the Company or any Subsidiary under the 
terms of which the Company or any Subsidiary:  (A) is likely to pay or 
otherwise give consideration of more than $250,000 in the aggregate 
during the calendar year ended December 31, 1996 or (B) is likely to pay 
or otherwise give consideration of more than $500,000 in the aggregate 
over the remaining term of such contract;

	(ii) each contract and agreement for the sale of Inventory or other 
personal property or for the furnishing of services by the Company or 
any Subsidiary which: (A) is likely to involve consideration of more 
than $500,000 in the aggregate during the calendar year ended December 
31, 1996 or (B) is likely to involve consideration of more than 
$2,000,000 in the aggregate over the remaining term of the contract;

	(iii) all material broker, distributor, dealer, manufacturer's 
representative, franchise, agency, sales promotion, market research, 
marketing consulting and advertising contracts and agreements to which 
the Company or any Subsidiary is a party;

	(iv) all management contracts and contracts with independent 
contractors or consultants (or similar arrangements) to which the 
Company or any Subsidiary is a party and which are not cancelable 
without penalty or further payment and without more than 30 days' 
notice;

	(v)  all contracts and agreements relating to Indebtedness in excess 
of $100,000 of the Company or any Subsidiary;

	(vi) all contracts and agreements with any Governmental Authority 
to which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party;

	(vii) all contracts and agreements to which the Company or any 
Subsidiary is a party that limit or purport to limit the ability of the 
Company or any Subsidiary to compete in any line of business or with 
any Person or in any geographic area or during any period of time;

	(viii) all contracts and agreements between or among the Company 
and any Affiliate of the Company that will survive (in whole or in part) 
the Effective Time;

	(ix) all contracts and agreements providing for benefits under any 
Plan;
				50
<PAGE>

	(x)  any distribution, joint marketing or development agreement; 

	(xi) all contracts and agreements under which the Company has 
obtained or will obtain Intellectual Property that is a component of any 
of the Company's products or services or that is necessary to develop, 
test, support, modify, maintain, reproduce, distribute, license or sell the 
Company's products or provide the Company's services;

	(xii) all contracts and agreements that in any way substantially 
limit or restrict or would substantially limit and restrict the Company's 
or, immediately after the Effective Time, Parent's or its subsidiaries' 
ability to use, modify, display,reproduce, distribute, license or sell the 
Company's products or provide the Company's services; and

	(xiii) all other contracts and agreements whether or not made in the 
ordinary course of business, which are material to the Company, any 
Subsidiary or the conduct of the Business or the absence of which 
would have a Material Adverse Effect.

		For purposes of this Section 3.15 and Sections 3.16, 3.17 and 
3.18, the term "lease" shall include any and all leases, subleases, 
sale/leaseback agreements or similar arrangements.

		(b)	Except as disclosed in Section 3.15(b) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, each Material Contract:  (i) is valid and binding on 
the Company or any Subsidiary which is a party thereto and, to the 
knowledge of the Company, the other parties thereto and is in full force 
and effect and (ii) upon consummation of the transactions contemplated 
by this Agreement, except to the extent that any consents set forth in 
Section 3.06 of the Disclosure Schedule are not obtained, shall be in 
full force and effect without material penalty or other material adverse 
consequence.  Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in material 
breach of, or default under, any Material Contract.

		(c)	Except as disclosed in Section 3.15(c) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, to the Company's knowledge, no other party to 
any Material Contract is in material breach thereof or default hereunder.

		(d)	Except as disclosed in Section 3.15(d) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, there is no contract, agreement or other 
arrangement granting any Person any preferential right to purchase, 
other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past 
practice, any of the properties or assets of the Company or any 
Subsidiary which are material to the Company and its Subsidiaries.

		SECTION 3.16.  Intellectual Property.  (a)  Section 3.16(a) of 
the Disclosure Schedule contains an accurate and complete listing 
setting forth (x) all registered Trademarks, Patents, Copyrights and 
registered Mask Works (as each such term is hereinafter defined) which 
are owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and (y) all 
Licenses to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party 
(other than shrink-wrap software and databases licensed to the Company 
or to any of its Subsidiaries under nonexclusive software Licenses 
granted to end-user customers by third parties in the ordinary course of 
business of such third parties' businesses), such schedule indicating, as 
to each such License, whether the Company or any of its Subsidiaries 
is the licensee or licensor.

		(b)	Except as set forth in Section 3.16(b)(i) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is 
under any obligation to pay any royalty orother compensation to any 
third party or to obtain any approval or consent for the use of any 
Intellectual Property used in or necessary for its business as currently 
conducted or as currently proposed to be conducted.  None of the 
Intellectual Property owned by the Company or by any of its 
Subsidiaries, or to the Company's knowledge, licensed to the Company 
or to any of its Subsidiaries, is subject to any outstanding judgment, 
order, decree, stipulation, injunction or charge.  Except as set forth in 
Section 3.16(b)(ii) of the Disclosure Schedule, there is no complaint, 
action, suit, proceeding, hearing, investigation or demand pending or, to 
the Company's knowledge, threatened, which challenges the legality, 
validity, enforceability, or the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' use 
or 
				51
<PAGE>

ownership of any of the Intellectual Property owned by the Company or 
any of its Subsidiaries or, to the Company's knowledge, licensed to the 
Company or to any of its Subsidiaries.  Neither the Company nor any 
of its Subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify any person for or against any 
interference, infringement, misappropriation, or other conflict with 
respect to any Intellectual Property, except as may be contained within 
agreements for the sale of the Company's products in the ordinary 
course or the Licenses set forth in Section 3.16(a) of the Company 
Disclosure Schedule.

		(c)	No material breach or material default (or event which 
with notice or lapse of time or both would result in a material event of 
default) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries exists or has 
occurred under any License or other agreement pursuant to which the 
Company or any of its Subsidiaries uses any Intellectual Property 
owned by a third party or has granted any third party the right to use its 
Intellectual Property, and the consummation of the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement will not violate or conflict with or 
constitute a material default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of 
time or both, would constitute a material default), result in a forfeiture 
under, or constitute a basis for termination of any such License or other 
agreement.

		(d)	The Company and its Subsidiaries own or have the 
right to use all items of Intellectual Property set forth in Section 
3.16(a) of the Disclosure Schedule and own or have the right to use all 
items of Intellectual Property necessary to provide, produce, use, sell 
and License the services and products currently provided, produced, used, 
sold and licensed by the Company and its Subsidiaries and to conduct 
the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries as presently 
conducted, free and clear of all Encumbrances, provided that the 
Company makes no warranty with respect to infringement of 
intellectual property rights of third parties except as expressly provided 
in Section 3.16(e) .

		(e)	To the Company's knowledge, except as set forth in 
Section 3.16(e) of the Disclosure Schedule, the conduct of the 
Company's and its Subsidiaries' business, the Intellectual Property 
owned or used by the Company and its Subsidiaries, and the products or 
services produced, sold or licensed by or under development by the 
Company and its Subsidiaries do not infringe any Intellectual Property 
rights or any other proprietary right of any Person or give rise to any 
obligations to any Person as a result of co-authorship, coinventorship, 
or an express or implied contract for any use or transfer.  Except as set 
forth in Section 3.16(e) of the Disclosure Schedule, the Company and 
its Subsidiaries have received no notice or have any knowledge of any 
allegations or threats that the Company's and its Subsidiaries' use of 
any of the Intellectual Property infringes upon or is in conflict with any 
Intellectual Property or proprietary rights of any third party, and to the 
Company's knowledge, no basis exists for any such allegations or 
threats.

		(f)	Except as set forth on Section 3.16(f) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries 
has sent or otherwise communicated to any other person any notice, 
charge, claim or assertion of any present, impending or threatened 
infringement by any other Person of any Intellectual Property of the 
Company and its Subsidiaries or any Intellectual Property that the 
Company has the right to use.

		(g)	None of the Company's and its Subsidiaries' products 
or services incorporate, are based upon or are derived or adapted from, 
any Intellectual Property of any other person in violation of any 
statutory or other legal obligation or any agreement to which the 
Company and its Subsidiaries is a party or by which it is bound.

		(h)	All of the Company's and its Subsidiaries' Patents, 
Trademarks and Copyrights that are material to the conduct of the 
Business issued by, registered with or filed with the United States 
Patent and Trademark Office or Register of Copyrights or the 
corresponding offices of other countries have been so duly registered, 
filed in or issued, as the case may be, have been properly maintained 
and renewed in all material respects in accordance with all applicable 
provisions of law and administrative regulations, and the Company and 
its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, are the 
				52
<PAGE>

record owners thereof. The Company and its Subsidiaries have taken 
reasonable steps in accordance with normal industry practice to maintain 
the confidentiality of its trade secrets and other confidential Intellectual 
Property, and, to the Company's knowledge, there have been no acts or 
omissions by the Company or its Subsidiaries, the result of which 
would be to compromise the rights of the Company or its Subsidiaries 
to apply for or enforce appropriate legal protection of such Intellectual 
Property.

		(i)	Except as described in Section 3.16(i) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, substantially all of the Company's and its 
Subsidiaries' employees and agents and independent contractors retained 
by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and each of the Company's 
and its Subsidiaries' officers and directors has entered into a written 
agreement with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (x) providing 
that all of the Company's and its Subsidiaries' Intellectual Property is 
confidential and proprietary to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, 
and (y) obligating to the fullest extent allowed by law the disclosure and 
transfer to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, in consideration for 
no more than normal salary and continued employment or consultant 
fees, as the case may be, of all inventions, developments and work 
product which during the period of his or her employment 
orconsultancy with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as the case 
may be, such employee, officer, director or independent contractor made 
or makes that related or relate to any subject matter with which such 
employee's, officer's, director's or independent contractor's work for the 
Company or any of its Subsidiaries was concerned, or, in the case of 
employees, officers, agents and directors, are made during such person's 
period of employment (or contractual relationship) or in connection 
therewith.  No former employees, officers, directors or independent 
contractors of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries have asserted any 
claim, or, to the Company's knowledge, have any, valid claim or valid 
right to any of the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' Intellectual 
Property used in or necessary for the conduct of the Company's or its 
Subsidiaries' business as now conducted.  To the Company's 
knowledge, no employee, officer, agent or director of the Company or 
any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or otherwise bound by any 
agreement with or obligated to any other Person (including, any former 
employer) which conflicts with any obligation or commitment of such 
employee to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under any 
agreement to which he or she is a party or otherwise.

		(j)	Section 3.16(j) of the Disclosure Schedule identifies 
each person to whom the Company or any of its Subsidiaries has sold 
or otherwise transferred any interest or rights to any Intellectual 
Property (other than end user licenses for computer software and related 
documentation transferred in the ordinary course of business) or 
purchased rights in any Intellectual Property, and the date, if applicable, 
of each such sale, transfer or purchase.

		(k)	The Company and each of its Subsidiaries have taken 
reasonable steps in accordance with normal industry practice to preserve 
and maintain, reasonably complete notes and records (including, without 
limitation, drawings, flow-charts and prototypes) relating to its know-
how, inventions, processes, procedures, drawings, specifications, 
designs, plans, written proposals, technical data, works of authorship 
and other proprietary technical information, sufficient to cause such 
proprietary information to be readily identified, understood and 
available.

		SECTION 3.17.  Real Property.  (a)  The Company owns no 
real property, nor has it ever owned any real property.  Section 3.17(a) 
of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth a list of all real property currently 
leased by the Company, the name of the lessor, the date of the lease and 
each amendment thereto and, with respect to any current lease, the 
aggregate annual rental and/or other fees payable under any such lease.  
To the Company's knowledge, all such current leases are in full force 
and effect, are valid and effective in accordance with their respective 
terms, and to the Company's knowledge, there is not, under any of such 
leases, any existing default or event of default (or event which with 
notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default).

		(b)	The Company has good and valid title to, or, in the 
case of material leased properties and assets, valid leasehold interests in, 
all of its material tangible propertiesand assets, real, personal and 
mixed, used or held for use in its business, free and clear of any 
Encumbrances, 
				53
<PAGE>

except as reflected in the Interim Financial Statements or in Section 
3.17(b) of the Disclosure Schedule and except for Permitted 
Encumbrances.

		SECTION 3.18.  Assets.  (a)  Except as disclosed in Section 
3.18 of the Disclosure Schedule, either the Company or a Subsidiary, 
as the case may be, owns, leases or has the legal right to use all the 
properties and assets, including, without limitation, the Owned 
Intellectual Property, the Licensed Intellectual Property, the Real 
Property and the Equipment, material to the conduct of the Company's 
business or otherwise owned, leased or used by the Company or any 
Subsidiary and, with respect to contract rights, is a party to and enjoys 
the right to the benefits of all material contracts, agreements and other 
arrangements used or intended to be used by the Company or any 
Subsidiary or in or relating to the conduct of the Company's business 
(all such properties, assets and contract rights being the "Assets").  
Either the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, has good title 
to, or, in the case of leased or subleased Assets, valid and subsisting 
leasehold interests in, all the Assets, free and clear of all Encumbrances, 
except (i) as disclosed in Section 3.16, 3.17(a), 3.17(b) or 3.18 of the 
Disclosure Schedule and (ii) Permitted Encumbrances.

		(b)	The Assets constitute all the properties, assets and 
rights, used or intended to be used in the conduct of, the Company's 
business.  At all times since the date of the Interim Balance Sheet, the 
Company has caused the Assets to be maintained in accordance with 
good business practice.

		(c)	Immediately following the Effective Time, either the 
Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, will continue to own, 
pursuant to good and marketable title, or lease, under valid and 
subsisting leases, or otherwise retain its respective interest in the 
Assets without incurring any penalty or other adverse consequence, 
including, without limitation, any material increase in rentals, 
royalties, or licenses or other fees imposed as a result of, or arising 
from, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this 
Agreement.  Immediately following the Closing, either the Company 
or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall own and possess all material 
documents, books, records, agreements and financial data of any sort 
used by the Company or such Subsidiary in the conduct of the 
Company's business or otherwise.

		SECTION 3.19.  Customers.  Listed in Section 3.19 of the 
Disclosure Schedule are the names and addresses of the 20 most 
significant customers (by revenue) of the Company and the Subsidiaries 
for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 1995 and the amount 
for which each such customer was invoiced during such period.  Except 
as disclosed in Section 3.19 of the Disclosure Schedule, none of the 
Company or any Subsidiary has received any notice that any customer 
listed in Section 3.19 of the Disclosure Schedule of the Company has 
ceased, or will cease, to use the products, equipment, goods or 
servicesof the Company or any Subsidiary, or has substantially reduced, 
or will substantially reduce, the use of such products, equipment, goods 
or services at any time.

		SECTION 3.20.  Employee Benefit Plans; Employment 
Agreements.  (a)  Section 3.20(a) of the Disclosure Schedule lists all 
employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA")), 
regardless of whether ERISA is applicable thereto, all other bonus, 
stock option, restricted stock, stock purchase, incentive, deferred 
compensation, supplemental retirement, severance or termination pay, 
medical or life insurance, supplemental unemployment benefits, change 
in control, non-competition, profit-sharing, pension or retirement 
plans, programs, agreements or arrangements, including any employee 
plans or arrangements that is not subject to United States law, and any 
current or former employment, consulting or executive compensation or 
severance agreements, written or otherwise, for the benefit of, or 
relating to, any employee of the Company, any trade or business 
(whether or not incorporated) which is a member of the controlled group 
including the Company or which is under common control with 
Company (an "ERISA Affiliate") within the meaning of Section 414 of 
the Code, or any Subsidiary, to which the Company, an ERISA 
Affiliate, or any Subsidiary is a party, with respect to which the 
Company, an ERISA Affiliate, or 
				54
<PAGE>

any Subsidiary could have a material obligation, as well as each plan 
with respect to which the Company or an ERISA Affiliate could incur 
material liability if such plan has been or were terminated (together, the 
"Employee Plans'), and a copy of each such written Employee Plan and 
any related trust or other funding arrangement, summary, plan 
description and actuarial report has been made available to Parent.

		(b)	Except as set forth in Section 3.20(b) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, (i) none of the Employee Plans promises or 
provides retiree medical or other retiree welfare benefits to any person 
and none of the Employee Plans is a "multiemployer plan" as such 
term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA; (ii) there has been no 
transaction or failure to act with respect to any Employee Plan, which 
would result in any material liability of the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries; (iii) all Employee Plans are in compliance in all material 
respects with the requirements prescribed by any and all statutes, orders, 
or governmental rules and regulations currently in effect with respect 
thereto, and the Company and each of its subsidiaries have performed all 
material obligations required to be performed by them under, are not in 
any material respect in default under or violations of, and have no 
knowledge of any default or violation by any other party to, any of the 
Employee Plans except as to which non-compliance, non-performance 
or default would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; (iv) each 
Employee Plan intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code is 
the subject of a favorable determination letter from the IRS, and 
nothing has occurred which may reasonably be expected to impair such 
determination; (v) all contributions (including premiums) required to be 
made to any Employee Plan have been made on or before their due dates 
and a reasonable amount has been accrued for contributions to each 
Employee Plan for the current plans years, and except as disclosed 
inSection 3.20(b) of the Disclosure Schedule, without limiting the 
foregoing, there are no material unfunded liabilities under any Employee 
Plan; (vi) with respect to each Employee Plan, no "reportable event" 
within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA (excluding any such 
event for which the thirty (30) day notice requirement has been waived 
under the regulations of Section 4043 of ERISA) nor has any event 
described in Section 4062, 4063 or 4041 of ERISA has occurred; and 
(vii) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, nor 
reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA 
(other than liability for premium payments to the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation arising in the ordinary course).

		(c)	There are no pending or, to the knowledge of the 
Company, threatened litigation, suits, claims or enforcement actions 
against the Company with respect to any of the Employee Plans.

		(d)	Section 3.20(d) of the Disclosure Schedule sets forth 
a true and complete list of each current or former employee, officer, 
director of the Company or any Subsidiary or consultants, advisors or 
other independent contractors to the Company or any of its subsidiaries 
who holds any option to purchase the Company Common Stock as of 
the date hereof, together with the number of shares of the Company 
Common Stock subject to such option, the date of grant of such 
option, the extent to which such option is vested, the option price of 
such option (to the extent determined as of the date hereof), whether 
such option is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within 
the meaning of Section 422 of the Code (an "ISO"), and the expiration 
date of such option.  All of the Company's options are nonqualified 
options.

		SECTION 3.21.   Labor Matters.   There are no disputes 
pending or, to the knowledge of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, 
threatened, between the Company or any of its subsidiaries and any of 
their respective employees, which disputes have or may have a Material 
Adverse Effect; neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a 
party to a collective bargaining agreement or other labor contract 
applicable to persons employed by the Company or its subsidiaries nor 
does the Company know of any activities or proceedings of any labor 
union to organize any such employees; and neither the Company nor 
any of its subsidiaries has any knowledge of any strikes, slowdowns, 
work stoppages, lockouts, or threats thereof, by or with respect to any 
employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.


				55
<PAGE>

		SECTION 3.22.  Key Employees.  Section 3.22 of the 
Disclosure Schedule lists the name, place of employment, the current 
annual salary rates, bonuses, deferred or contingent compensation, 
pension, accrued vacation, "golden parachute" and other like benefits 
paid or payable (in cash or otherwise) in 1995, the date of employment 
and a description of position and job function of each current salaried 
employee, officer, director,consultant or agent of the Company or any 
Subsidiary whose annual compensation exceeded (or, in 1996, is 
expected to exceed) $175,000.

		SECTION 3.23.  Taxes.  (a) Except as disclosed in Section 
3.23 of the Disclosure Schedule,  (i) all returns and reports in respect of 
material Taxes required to be filed with respect to the Company and 
each Subsidiary (including the consolidated federal income tax return of 
the Company and any state Tax returns that includes the Company or 
any Subsidiary on a consolidated or combined basis) have been timely 
filed or are under a valid extension of time to file; (ii) all Taxes required 
to be shown on such returns and reports or otherwise due have been 
timely paid or adequate reserves for their payment have been made; (iii) 
no adjustment relating to such returns has been proposed formally or 
informally by any Tax authority to the Company or any Subsidiary or 
representative thereof and, to the knowledge of the Company, no basis 
exists for any such adjustment; (iv) there are no pending or, to the 
knowledge of the Company, threatened actions or proceedings for the 
assessment or collection of a material amount of Taxes against the 
Company or any Subsidiary or any corporation that was included in the 
filing of a return with the Company on a consolidated or combined 
basis; (v) there are no Tax liens on any assets of the Company or any 
Subsidiary other than liens for Taxes not yet due and payable; (vi) other 
than as set forth in Section 3.23(a) of the Disclosure Schedule and other 
than as provided in Section 6.02, neither the Company nor any 
Subsidiary nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any Affiliate of the 
Company, is a party to any agreement or arrangement that would result, 
separately or in the aggregate, in the payment of any "excess parachute 
payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code 
(disregarding Section 280G(b)(4) of the Code); (vii) other than as 
provided in Section 6.02, no acceleration of the vesting schedule for any 
property that is substantially unvested within the meaning of the 
regulations under Section 83 of the Code will occur in connection with 
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (viii) from and after 
December 31, 1992, the Company and each Subsidiary has been and 
continues to be a member of the affiliated group (within the meaning of 
Section 1504(a)(1) of the Code) for which the Company files a 
consolidated return as the common parent, and has not been includible 
in any other consolidated return for any taxable period for which the 
statute of limitations has not expired; (ix) neither the Company nor any 
Subsidiary has been at any time a member of any partnership or joint 
venture or the holder of a beneficial interest in any trust for any period 
for which the statute of limitations for any Tax has not expired; (x) 
neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has been a United States real 
property holding corporation within the meaning of Section 897(c)(2) 
of the Code during the applicable period specified in Section 
897(c)(1)(A)(ii) of the Code; and (xi) neither the Company nor any 
Subsidiary is subject to any accumulated earnings tax or personal 
holding company tax.

 		(b)	Except as disclosed with reasonable specificity in 
Section 3.23(b) of the Disclosure Schedule:  (i) there are no outstanding 
waivers or agreements extending the statute of limitations for any 
period with respect to any Tax to which the Company or anySubsidiary 
may be subject; (ii) neither the Company nor any Subsidiary (A) has 
been or is a passive foreign investment company within the meaning of 
Section 1296 of the Code, (B) has an unrecaptured overall foreign loss 
within the meaning of Section 904(f) of the Code or (C) has 
participated in or cooperated with an international boycott within the 
meaning of Section 999 of the Code; (iii) neither the Company nor any 
Subsidiary has any (A) income reportable for a period ending after the 
Effective Time but attributable to a transaction (e.g., an installment 
sale) occurring in or a change in accounting method made for a period 
ending on or prior to the Effective Time which resulted in a deferred 
reporting of income from such transaction or from such change in 
accounting method (other than a deferred intercompany transaction), (B) 
deferred gain or loss arising out of any deferred intercompany transaction 
or (C) any excess loss account; (iv) there are no proposed reassessments 
of any property owned by the Company or any Subsidiary or other 
proposals that could materially increase the amount of any Tax to 
which the Company or any Subsidiary would be subject which could 
reasonably be expected to have a material Adverse Effect; (v) neither the 
				56
<PAGE>

Company nor any Subsidiary is obligated under any agreement with 
respect to industrial development bonds or similar obligations, with 
respect to which the excludibility from gross income of the holder for 
federal income tax purposes could be affected by the transactions 
contemplated hereunder; and (vi) no power of attorney that is currently 
in force has been granted with respect to any matter relating to Taxes 
that could affect the Company or a Subsidiary.

		(c)	(i) Section 3.23 of the Disclosure Schedule lists all 
income, franchise and similar tax returns (federal, state, local and 
foreign) filed with respect to each of the Company and the Subsidiaries 
for taxable periods ended on or after December 31, 1992, indicates for 
which jurisdictions Returns have been filed on the basis of a unitary 
group, indicates the most recent income, franchise or similar tax return 
for each relevant jurisdiction for which an audit has been completed or 
the statute of limitations has lapsed and indicates all tax returns that 
currently are the subject of audit; (ii) the Company has made available 
to Parent correct and complete copies of all federal, state and foreign 
income, franchise and similar tax returns, examination reports, and 
statements of deficiencies assessed against or agreed to by the Company 
or any Subsidiary since December 31, 1992; and (iii) the Company has 
made available to Parent a true and complete copy of any tax-sharing or 
allocation agreement or arrangement involving the Company or any 
Subsidiary.

		SECTION 3.24.  Insurance.  Section 3.24 of the Disclosure 
Schedule lists all insurance policies and fidelity bonds covering the 
assets, business, equipment, properties, operations, employees, officers 
and directors of the Company.  There is no material claim by the 
Company pending under any of such policies or bonds as to which 
coverage has been questioned, denied or disputed by the underwriters of 
such policies and bonds.  All premiums due and payable under all such 
policies and bonds have been paid and the Company is otherwise in 
material compliance with the terms of such policies and bonds (or other 
policies and bonds providing substantially similar insurance coverage).  
The Company has noknowledge of any threatened termination of, or 
material premium increase with respect to, any of such policies.

		SECTION 3.25.  Brokers.  No broker, finder or investment 
banker is entitled to any brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission 
in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement 
based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of the Company.

		SECTION 3.26.  Approval Requirements.  The only actions 
by the shareholders of the Company necessary to approve this 
Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are (a) 
the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company 
Common Stock and (b) the approval of a majority of the outstanding 
shares of the Company Preferred Stock, voting together (on an as 
converted basis) as a single class.  The approval of this Agreement and 
the transactions contemplated hereby by all of the shares of Company 
Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock owned by the Principal 
Shareholder (the "Principal Shareholder Approval") will be sufficient to 
satisfy the required actions described in clauses (a) and (b) of the 
immediately preceding sentence.  The Principal Shareholder has 
provided, or will prior to the Effective Time provide, the Principal 
Shareholder Approval by written consent pursuant to the Articles of 
Incorporation and Bylaws of the Company and to California Law.


ARTICLE IV

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PARENT AND 
MERGER SUB

		As an inducement to the Company to enter into this 
Agreement, Parent and Merger Sub hereby, jointly and severally, 
represent and warrant to the Company as follows:

		SECTION 4.01.  Organization and Authority.  Each of Parent 
and Merger Sub is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in 
good standing under the laws of the State of California and has all 
necessary corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement, to 
				57
<PAGE>

carry out its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions 
contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by 
each of Parent and Merger Sub, the performance by each of its 
obligations hereunder and the consummation by each of the transactions 
contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite action on 
the part of Parent and Merger Sub. This Agreement has been duly 
executed and delivered by Parent and Merger Sub, and (assuming due 
authorization, execution and delivery by the Company) this Agreement 
constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Parent and Merger 
Sub enforceable against each in accordance with its terms except as such 
enforceability may be limited by principles of public policy and subject 
to the laws of generalapplication relating to bankruptcy, insolvency and 
the relief of debtors and rules of law governing specific performance, 
injunctive relief or other equitable remedies.

		SECTION 4.02.  No Conflict.  Assuming compliance with 
the notification requirements of the HSR Act and the making and 
obtaining of all filings, notifications, consents, approvals, 
authorizations and other actions referred to in Section 4.03, except as 
may result from any facts or circumstances relating solely to the 
Company, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement 
by each of Parent and Merger Sub do not and will not (a) violate, 
conflict with or result in the breach of any provision of the Articles of 
Incorporation or Bylaws of either, (b) conflict with or violate any Law 
or Governmental Order applicable to either or (c) conflict with, or result 
in any breach of, constitute a default (or event which with the giving of 
notice or lapse or time, or both, would become a default) under, require 
any consent under, or give to others any rights of termination, 
amendment, acceleration, suspension, revocation, or cancellation of, or 
result in the creation of any Encumbrance on any of the assets or 
properties of Parent or Merger Sub pursuant to, any note, bond, 
mortgage or indenture, contract, agreement, lease, sublease, license, 
permit, franchise or other instrument or arrangement to which Parent or 
Merger Sub is a party or by which any of such assets or properties are 
bound or affected which would have a material adverse effect on the 
business, operations, assets, results of operations or the condition 
(financial or otherwise) of Parent or the ability of Parent or Merger Sub 
to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

		SECTION 4.03.  Governmental Consents and Approvals.  The 
execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Parent do not 
and Merger Sub will not require any consent, approval, authorization or 
other order of, action by, filing with, or notification to, any 
Governmental Authority, except (a) as described in a writing given to 
the Company by Parent on the date of this Agreement and (b) the 
notification requirements of the HSR Act and for applicable 
requirements, if any, of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, state securities laws, and 
the filing of appropriate merger documents under California Law.

		SECTION 4.04.  Brokers.  No broker, finder or investment 
banker other than DMG Technology Group is entitled to any brokerage, 
finder's or other fee or commission in connection with the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or 
on behalf of Parent or Merger Sub.

		SECTION 4.05.  SEC Documents: Undisclosed Liabilities. 
Parent has filed all required reports, schedules, forms, statements and 
other documents with the SEC since December 31, 1994 (the "Parent 
SEC Documents").  As of their respective dates, the Parent SEC 
Documents complied in all material respects with the requirements of 
the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and the 
rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to 
such Parent SEC Documents, and none of the ParentSEC Documents 
contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a 
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make 
the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they 
were made, not misleading.  Except to the extent that information 
contained in any Parent SEC Document has been revised or superseded 
by a later Filed Parent SEC Document (as defined below), none of the 
Parent SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact 
or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or 
necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The 
financial statements 
				58
<PAGE>

of Parent included in the Parent SEC Documents comply as to form in 
all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the 
published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have 
been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP (except, in the case of 
unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied 
on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be 
indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly present the consolidated 
financial position of Parent and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the 
dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash 
flows (or changes in financial position prior to the approval of 
Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 95) for the periods then ended (subject, in the 
case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).  
Except as set forth in the Filed Parent SEC Documents, neither Parent 
nor any of its subsidiaries has any liabilities or obligations of any 
nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) required by 
U.S. GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of Parent 
and its consolidated subsidiaries or in the notes thereto and reasonably 
be expected to have a material adverse effect on Parent and its 
subsidiaries taken as a whole.

		SECTION 4.06.  Absence of Certain Changes or Events.  
Except as disclosed in the Parent SEC Documents filed and publicly 
available prior to the date of this Agreement (the "Filed Parent SEC 
Documents"), since the date of the most recent audited financial 
statements included in the filed Parent SEC Documents, Parent has 
conducted its business only in the ordinary course, and there has not 
been (i) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or 
distribution (whether in cash, stock or property) with respect to any of 
Parent's capital stock except for regular quarterly dividends on Parent's 
outstanding preferred stock, (ii) any split, combination or 
reclassification of any of its capital stock or any issuance or the 
authorization of any issuance of any other securities in respect of, in 
lieu of or in substitution for shares of its capital stock, (iii) any 
damage, destruction or loss, whether or not covered by insurance, that 
has or is likely to have a material adverse effect on Parent and its 
subsidiaries taken a whole, or (iv) any change in accounting methods, 
principles or practices by Parent materially affecting its assets, 
liabilities, or business, except insofar as may have been required by a 
change in U.S. GAAP.
		
		SECTION 4.07.  Litigation.  Except as disclosed in the filed 
Parent SEC Documents, there is no suit, action or proceeding pending 
or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened against or affecting Parent or 
any of its subsidiaries (and Parent is not aware ofany basis for any such 
suit, action or proceeding) that, individually or in the aggregate, could 
reasonably be expected to (i) have a material adverse effect on Parent and 
its subsidiaries taken as a whole, (ii) impair the ability of Parent to 
perform its obligations under this Agreement or (iii) prevent the 
consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this 
Agreement, nor is there any judgment, decree, injunction, rule or order 
of any Governmental Entity or arbitrator outstanding against Parent or 
any of its subsidiaries having, or which, insofar as reasonably can be 
foreseen, in the future would have, any such effect.

		SECTION 4.08.  Voting Requirements.  No action by the 
shareholders of Parent is required to approve this Agreement and the 
transaction contemplated by this Agreement.


ARTICLE V

ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS

		SECTION 5.01.  Conduct of Business Prior to the Closing.  
(a)  The Company covenants and agrees that, except as described in 
Section 5.01(a) of the Disclosure Schedule or as otherwise permitted by 
this Agreement (and subject to the limitations on conduct set forth in 
this Section 5.01), between the date hereof and the Effective Time, none 
of the Company or any Subsidiary shall conduct its business other than 
in the ordinary course and consistent with the Company's and such 
Subsidiary's prior practice.  Without limiting the generality of the 
foregoing, except as described in Section 5.01(a) of the Disclosure 
Schedule, the Company shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, (i) 
continue its advertising and promotional activities, and pricing and 
				59
<PAGE>

purchasing policies, in accordance with past practice; (ii) not shorten or 
lengthen the customary payment cycles for any of its payables or 
receivables; (iii) use its reasonable efforts to (A) preserve intact its 
business organizations and the business organization of the Business, 
(B) keep available to Parent and Merger Sub the services of the 
employees of the Company and each Subsidiary, (C) continue in full 
force and effect without material modification all existing policies or 
binders of insurance currently maintained in respect of the Company, 
each Subsidiary and the Business and (D) preserve its current 
relationships with its customers, suppliers and other persons with 
which it has significant business relationships; (iv) exercise, but only 
after notice to Parent and receipt of Parent's prior written approval, any 
rights of renewal pursuant to the terms of any of the leases or subleases 
set forth in Section 3.17(a) of the Disclosure Schedule which by their 
terms would otherwise expire; (v) not make an offer of employment to 
any Person without the approval of Parent and (vi) not engage in any 
practice, take any action, fail to take any action or enter into any 
transaction with knowledge that it would or could reasonably be 
expected to cause any representation or warranty of the Company to be 
untrue in any material respect or result in a material breach of any 
covenant made by the Company in this Agreement.

		(b)	Except as described in Section  5.01(b) of the 
Disclosure Schedule, the Company covenants and agrees that, prior to 
the Effective Time, without the prior written consent of Parent, neither 
the Company nor any Subsidiary will do any of the things enumerated 
in the second sentence of Section 3.10 (including, without limitation, 
clauses (i) through (xxiii) thereof).

		SECTION 5.02.  Access to Information.  (a) From the date 
hereof until the Effective Time, upon reasonable notice, the Company 
shall, and shall cause the Subsidiaries and each of the Company's and 
the Subsidiaries' officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, 
accountants and counsel to:  (i) afford the officers, employees and 
authorized agents, accountants, counsel, and representatives of Parent 
reasonable access, during normal business hours, to the offices, 
properties, plants, other facilities, books and records of the Company 
and each Subsidiary and to those officers, directors, employees, agents, 
accountants and counsel of the Company and of each Subsidiary who 
have any knowledge relating to the Company, any Subsidiary or the 
Company's business and (ii) furnish to the officers, employees and 
authorized agents, accountants, counsel, and representatives of Parent 
such additional financial and operating data and other information 
regarding the assets, properties and goodwill of the Company, the 
Subsidiaries and the Company's business (or legible copies thereof) as 
Parent may from time to time reasonably request.

		(b)	Parent shall keep such information confidential in 
accordance with the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement. 

		SECTION 5.03.  Regulatory and Other Authorizations; 
Notices and Consents.  (a)  Each of Parent and the Company shall use 
its best reasonable efforts to obtain (or cause Merger Sub or the 
Subsidiaries, as the case may be, to obtain) all authorizations, consents, 
orders and approvals of all Governmental Authorities and officials that 
may be or become necessary for execution and delivery of, and the 
performance of obligations pursuant to, this Agreement and will 
cooperate fully with each other in promptly seeking to obtain all such 
authorizations, consents, orders and approvals.  Each party hereto agrees 
to make an appropriate filing, if necessary, pursuant to the HSR Act 
with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as 
promptly as reasonably practicable and to supply, as promptly as 
practicable to the appropriate Governmental Authorities any additional 
information and documentary material that may be requested pursuant to 
the HSR Act.

		(b)	Each of Parent and the Company shall, and shall 
cause Merger Sub and the Subsidiaries, as the case may be, to, give 
promptly such notices to third parties and use its or their reasonable 
efforts to obtain such third party consents and estoppel certificates as 
may be reasonably necessary in connection with the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement.



				60
<PAGE>

		(c)	Each of Parent and the Company shall use their 
reasonable best efforts to obtain an assignment to Parent on reasonable 
terms of the license and distribution agreement dated as of August 12, 
1996 between Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and the Company, 
or the Company shall provide reasonable assurances as to a way of 
achieving equivalent functionality without the need for a license from 
Microsoft.

		(d)	The Company shall (i) use its reasonable best efforts 
to obtain from Hewlett Packard a confirmation of the termination or 
expiration of Section 2.5(a) of the software porting and marketing 
agreement between Hewlett Packard and the Company or (ii) have 
provided Parent, prior to the Effective Time, evidence reasonably 
satisfactory to Parent that such termination or expiration has occurred.

		SECTION 5.04.  Notice of Developments.  Prior to the 
Effective Time, each of Parent and the Company shall promptly notify 
the other in writing of (i) all events, circumstances, facts and 
occurrences arising subsequent to the date of this Agreement which 
could reasonably be expected to result in any material breach of a 
representation or warranty or covenant of Parent or the Company, as the 
case may be, in this Agreement or which could have the effect of 
making any representation or warranty of Parent or the Company in 
this Agreement or which could have the effect of making any 
representation or warranty of Parent or the Company, as the case may 
be, in this Agreement untrue or incorrect in any material respect.

		SECTION 5.05.  No Solicitation or Negotiation.  The 
Company agrees that between the date of this Agreement and the earlier 
of (i) the Effective Time and (ii) the termination of this Agreement, 
none of the Company, and its Subsidiaries nor any of their respective 
Affiliates, officers, directors, representatives or agents will (a) solicit, 
initiate, consider, encourage or accept any other proposals or offers from 
any Person (i) relating to any acquisition or purchase of all or any 
portion of the capital stock of the Company or any Subsidiary (other 
than the exercise or conversion of outstanding options) or assets of the 
Company or any Subsidiary (other than inventory to be sold in the 
ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), (ii) to enter 
into any business combination with the Company or any Subsidiary or 
(iii) to enter into any other extraordinary business transaction involving 
or otherwise relating to the Company or any Subsidiary, or (b) 
participate in any discussions, conversations, negotiations and other 
communications regarding, or furnish to any other Person any 
information with respect to, or otherwise cooperate in any way, assist 
or participate in, facilitate or encourage any effort or attempt by any 
other Person to seek to do any of the foregoing.  The Company 
immediately shall cease and cause to be terminated all existing 
discussions, conversations, negotiations and other communications 
with any Persons conducted heretofore with respect to any of the 
foregoing.  The Company shall notify Parent promptly if any such 
proposal or offer, or any inquiry or other contact with any Person with 
respect thereto, is made and shall, in any such notice to Parent, indicate 
in reasonable detail the identity of the Person making such proposal, 
offer, inquiry or contactand the terms and conditions of such proposal, 
offer, inquiry or other contact.  The Company agrees not to, and to 
cause each Subsidiary not to, without the prior written consent of 
Parent, release any Person from, or waive any provision of, any 
confidentiality or standstill agreement to which the Company or any 
Subsidiary is a party.

		SECTION 5.06.  Further Action.  Each of the parties hereto 
shall use all reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all 
appropriate action, do or cause to be done all things necessary, proper or 
advisable under applicable Law, and execute and deliver such documents 
and other papers, as may be required to carry out the provisions of this 
Agreement and consummate and make effective the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement.

		SECTION 5.07.  Conduct of Business by Parent.  During the 
period from the date of this Agreement to the Effective Time of the 
Merger, Parent shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to:


				61
<PAGE>

	(a)	(i)  declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any 
other distributions in respect of, any capital stock of Parent or (ii) split, 
combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or issue or authorize the 
issuance of any other securities in resect of, in lieu of or in substitution 
for shares of Parent's capital stock; or

	(b)	authorize any of, or commit or agree to take any of, the 
foregoing actions.


ARTICLE VI

STOCK OPTIONS
	
		SECTION 6.01.  Stock Options.  (a)  At or prior to the 
Effective Time, the Company shall take all actions necessary to cause 
each outstanding Vested Company Stock Option, including obtaining 
the written consent of holders of Vested Company Stock Options, to be 
converted, at the Effective Time, into the right to receive as of the 
Effective Time in cancellation of such Vested Company Stock Option 
an amount in cash equal to the amount, if any, by which (i) the product 
determined by multiplying the number of shares of Company Common 
Stock subject to such Vested Company Stock Option by the Common 
Merger Consideration exceeds (ii) the aggregate exercise price for the 
shares of Company Common Stock subject to such Vested Company 
Stock Option.

		(b)	Subject to the provisions of this Section 6.01, at the 
Effective Time the Company's obligations under the Stock Option Plan 
and with respect to each outstandingUnvested Company Stock Option 
will be assumed by Parent.  Each Unvested Company Stock Option so 
assumed shall continue to have, and be subject to, the same terms and 
conditions set forth in the applicable option agreement and the Stock 
Option Plan pursuant to which such Unvested Common Stock Option 
was issued as in effect on the date hereof, except that at or prior to the 
Effective Time the Company shall take all actions necessary to cause 
each outstanding Unvested Company Stock Option to be converted, at 
the Effective Time, into an option to acquire, on the same terms and 
conditions as were applicable under the relevant option agreement and 
the Stock Option Plan (as modified by this Section 6.01(b)), that 
number of shares of Parent Common Stock which is equal to the 
product of the Conversion Ratio and the number of shares of Company 
Common Stock underlying such Company Stock Option immediately 
prior to the Effective Time, rounded, if necessary, down to the nearest 
whole share, at a price per share equal to (x) the aggregate exercise price 
for the Company Common Stock subject to such Company Stock 
Option divided by (y) the number of shares of Parent Common Stock 
deemed to be subject to such Company Stock Option.

		(c)	In the event that holders of Vested Common Stock 
Options do not exercise such options or consent to the amendment of 
such options as set forth in Section 6.01(a) as of the Effective Time, 
such remaining Vested Company Stock Options shall terminate as of 
the Effective Time in accordance with the provisions of the Stock 
Option Plan.

		SECTION  6.02.  Certain Employee Benefit Matters.   (a)  As 
of the Effective Time, Parent and the Company shall take all actions 
necessary to cause all option agreements which are in effect under the 
Stock Option Plan following the Effective Time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (the "Option Agreements") to provide that, 
in the event a recipient of options under such Option Agreement who is 
employed by Parent or its subsidiaries in accordance with this 
Agreement (each, an "Optionee") is terminated from employment 
without Cause during the period from the Effective Time until the 
second anniversary of the Effective Time (the "Covered Period"), all 
options granted to such Optionee under such Option Agreements which 
are not exercisable under the terms of such agreements on the date that 
the Optionee's employment is terminated shall accelerate, and that all 
options subject to such Option Agreements shall be exercisable for a 
period of thirty (30) days beginning on the date that the Optionee's 
employment is terminated, after which period all such options shall be 
cancelled and such Option Agreements 
				62
<PAGE>

shall terminate. In the event an Optionee voluntarily resigns from 
employment with Parent or its subsidiaries without Good Reason (as 
defined below), is terminated from employment with Parent or its 
subsidiaries for Cause, or refuses an offer of employment in a similar 
position and at a comparable salary with Parent or its subsidiaries, all 
options which are not exercisable or have not been exercised on the date 
the Optionee's employment terminates shall be cancelled and the Option 
Agreements to which such Optionee is a party shall terminate. Except 
as otherwise provided, all other terms of the Option Agreements shall 
remain unchanged. Further, with respect to executives of the Company 
who are employed at the level of vicepresident or above as identified in 
the document titled "Current NeXT Software Employment Data", 
effective December 17, 1996, who are employed by Parent or the 
Company immediately after the Effective Time ("Transferred Senior 
Executives"), Parent and the Company shall take all actions necessary 
to amend the Option Agreements which are in effect with respect to 
such Transferred Senior Executives to provide that in the event such 
Transferred Senior Executive resigns from employment with Parent or 
its subsidiaries for Good Reason during the Covered Period, all options 
subject to such Option Agreements which are not exercisable under the 
terms of such agreements as of the date that the Transferred Senior 
Executive resigns shall accelerate, and that all options subject to such 
Option Agreements shall be exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days 
beginning on the date of such Transferred Senior Executive's 
resignation, after which time all such options shall be cancelled and 
such Option Agreements shall terminate.

		(b)  It is the express understanding and intention of the 
Company and Parent that no employee of the Company or Parent or 
any of their subsidiaries or other person shall be deemed to be a third 
party beneficiary, or have or acquire any right to enforce the provisions 
of this Section, and that nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to 
constitute an employee benefit plan or arrangement of the Company, 
Parent or any of their respective subsidiaries.

ARTICLE VII

ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS

		SECTION 7.01.  Securities Filings.  Parent and the Company 
shall make all necessary filings with respect to the Merger under the 
Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations 
thereunder, under applicable Blue Sky or similar securities laws, rules 
and regulations and shall use all reasonable efforts to obtain required 
approvals and clearances with respect thereto.

		SECTION 7.02.  Company Shareholder Approval.  The 
Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the written consent of the 
Principal Shareholder in favor of the Merger, to notify all other 
shareholders of the Company of such consent and to take all other 
action necessary or advisable to secure the vote or consent of 
shareholders required by California Law to effect the Merger.

		SECTION 7.03.  NNM Listing.  Parent shall use reasonable 
efforts to cause the shares of Parent Common Stock issuable to the 
Company's stockholders pursuant to this Agreement to be authorized 
for listing on the NNM.

		SECTION 7.04.  Shelf Registration.  Parent shall be required 
to make available an effective shelf registration statement for the 
purpose of permitting resale of theshares of Parent Common Stock 
received pursuant hereto by the Principal Shareholder within 180 days 
of the date hereof.

		SECTION 7.05.  Form S-8.  With respect to the Stock 
Option Plan, Parent shall take all corporate action necessary or 
appropriate to as soon as practicable after the Effective Time, file a 
registration statement on Form S-3 or Form S-8, as appropriate (or any 
successor or other appropriate forms), with respect to the shares of 
Parent Common Stock subject to such plan to the extent such 
registration statement is required under applicable law in order for such 
shares of Parent 
				63
<PAGE>

Common Stock to be sold without restriction, and Parent shall use its 
best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statements 
(and maintain the current status of the prospectuses contained therein) 
for so long as such benefits and grants remain payable and such options 
remain outstanding.

		SECTION 7.06.  Guaranteed Debt.  Parent shall cause the 
Guaranteed Debt to be paid at the Effective Time.

		SECTION 7.07.  Directors' and Officers' Indemnification and 
Insurance.  (a)  For a period of three years after the Effective Time, 
Parent shall cause the Surviving Corporation to use its best efforts to 
maintain in effect, if available, directors' and officers' liability insurance 
covering those persons who are currently covered by the Company's 
directors' and officers' liability insurance policy (a copy of which has 
been heretofore delivered to Parent) on terms comparable to those 
applicable to the then current directors and officers of Parent, or (ii) 
those now applicable to directors and officers of the Company, 
whichever is more favorable to such directors and officers; provided, 
however, that in no event shall Parent or the Surviving Corporation be 
required to expend in excess of 150% of the annual premium currently 
paid by the Company for such coverage, and provided further, that if the 
premium for such coverage exceeds such amount, Parent or the 
Surviving Corporation shall purchase a policy with the greatest 
coverage available for such 150% of the annual premium.

		(b)	The Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the 
Surviving Corporation shall contain the provisions that are set forth, as 
of the date of this Agreement, in the Articles of Incorporation and 
Bylaws of the Company, which provisions shall not be amended, 
repealed or otherwise modified for a period of five years from the 
Effective Time in any manner that would affect adversely the rights 
thereunder of individuals who at or at any time prior to the Effective 
Time were directors, officers, employees, fiduciaries or agents of the 
Company.


ARTICLE VIII

CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

		SECTION 8.01.  Conditions to Obligations of Each of the 
Company and Parent.  The respective obligations of the Company and 
Parent to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement 
shall each be subject to the fulfillment, at or prior to the Effective 
Time, of each of the following conditions:

	(a)	HSR Act.  Any waiting period (and any extension thereof) 
under the HSR Act applicable to the Merger shall have expired or shall 
have been terminated;

	(b)	Consents and Approvals.  Parent and the Company shall have 
received, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the 
parties, all authorizations, consents, orders and approvals of all 
Governmental Authorities and officials and all third party consents 
required in order to consummate the Merger; and

	(c)	Court Order.  No court of competent jurisdiction shall have 
issued or entered any order, writ, injunction or decree, and no other 
Governmental Entity shall have issued any order, which is then in effect 
and has the effect of making the Merger illegal or otherwise prohibiting 
its consummation.

		SECTION 8.02.  Conditions to Obligations of the Company.  
The obligations of the Company to consummate the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment, at 
or prior to the Effective Time, of each of the following conditions:

				64
<PAGE>

	(a)	Representations, Warranties and Covenants.  The 
representations and warranties of Parent contained in this Agreement 
shall have been true and correct in all material respects when made and 
shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Effective 
Time, with the same force and effect as if made as of the Effective 
Time, other than such representations and warranties as are made as of 
another date, the covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement 
to be complied with by Parent and Merger Sub on or before the 
Effective Time shall have been complied with in all material respects, 
and the Company shall have received a certificate from Parent and 
Merger Sub to such effect signed by a duly authorized officer thereof;

	(b)	No Proceeding or Litigation.  No Action shall have been 
commenced by or before any Governmental Authority against either the 
Company, Merger Sub or Parent, seeking to restrain or materially and 
adversely alter the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which, 
in the reasonable, good faith determination of the Company, is likely to 
render it impossible or unlawful to consummate such transactions; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section 8.02(b) shall not 
apply if the Company or an affiliate thereof has directly or indirectly 
solicited or encouraged any such Action;

	(c)	Legal Opinion.  The Company shall have received an opinion, 
dated as of the Effective Time, from Shearman & Sterling, counsel to 
Parent, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company;

	(d)	NNM Listing.  The shares of Parent Common Stock issuable 
to the Company's shareholders pursuant to this Agreement shall have 
been authorized for listing on the NNM, upon official notice of 
issuance; and 

	(e)	Resolutions.  The Company shall have received a true and 
complete copy, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of 
Parent, of the resolutions duly and validly adopted by the Board of 
Directors of Parent and Merger Sub evidencing their authorization of the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the 
transactions contemplated hereby.

		SECTION 8.03.  Conditions to Obligations of Parent.  The 
obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to consummate the transactions 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment, at 
or prior to the Effective Time, of each of the following conditions:

	(a)	Representations, Warranties and Covenants.  The 
representations and warranties of the Company contained in this 
Agreement shall have been true and correct in all material respects 
(without regard to any knowledge qualification) when made and shall be 
true and correct in all material respects (without regard to any 
knowledge qualification) as of the Effective Time with the same force 
and effect as if made as of the Effective Time, other than such 
representations and warranties as are made as of another date, except in 
all cases for such breaches of, inaccuracies in or omissions from such 
representations and warranties as do not have a Material Adverse Effect, 
the covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement to be 
complied with in all material respects by the Company on or before the 
Effective Time shall have been complied with in all material respects, 
and Parent shall have received a certificate of the Company to such 
effect signed by a duly authorized officer thereof;

	(b)	No Proceeding or Litigation.  No Action shall have been 
commenced or threatened by or before any Governmental Authority 
against either the Company or Parent, seeking to restrain or materially 
and adversely alter the transactions contemplated hereby which in the 
reasonable, good faith determination of the Parent, is likely to render it 
impossible or unlawful to consummate such transactions; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this Section 8.03(b) shall not apply if 
Parent or an affiliate thereof has solicited or encouraged any such 
Action;




				65
<PAGE>

	(c)	Resolutions of the Company.  Parent shall have received a true 
and complete copy, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary 
of the Company, of the resolutions duly and validly adopted by the 
Board of Directors of the Companyevidencing its authorization of the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the 
transactions contemplated hereby;

	(d)	Certificate of Non-Foreign Status.  Parent shall have received a 
certificate from the Company that complies with Sections 1.1445-
2(c)(3) and 1.8972(a) of the Regulations certifying that the Company is 
not a United States Real Property Holding Corporation for purposes of 
Section 897 of the Code;

	(e)	Canon Approvals.  The waiver letter dated December 19, 1996 
from Canon, Inc. to the Company shall not have been withdrawn and 
shall be in full force and effect;

	(f)	Shareholder Approval.  Each of this Agreement and the Merger 
shall have been duly approved by the requisite vote of shareholders of 
the Company;

	(g)	June 30 Audited Financials.  True and complete copies of an 
audited consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 1996 and the related 
audited consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, 
stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company, together with all 
related notes and schedules thereto, accompanied by the reports thereon 
of the Company's accountants (the "June 30 Financials") shall have 
been made available or delivered to Parent, and the June 30 Financials 
shall satisfy the requirements of the second sentence of Section 3.07(a); 
and

	(h)	Legal Opinion.  Parent shall have received an opinion, dated as 
of the Effective Time, from Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati, 
counsel to the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory 
to Parent and its counsel. 


ARTICLE IX

SURVIVAL; INDEMNIFICATION

		SECTION 9.01.  Survival of Representations and Warranties.  
The representations and warranties of the Company and Parent contained 
in this Agreement shall not survive the Effective Time.

ARTICLE X

TERMINATION AND WAIVER

		SECTION 10.01.  Termination.  This Agreement may be 
terminated at any time prior to the Closing:

	(a)	by Parent if, between the date hereof and the Effective Time:  
(i) any representation or warranty of the Company contained in this 
Agreement shall have been breached such that the conditions set forth in 
Section 8.03(a) would or could not be satisfied by June 30, 1997, (ii) 
the Company shall not have complied in any material respect with any 
covenant or agreement to be complied with by it and contained in this 
Agreement within 15 days after receipt of notice of non-compliance 
from Parent; or (iii) the Company or any Subsidiary makes a general 
assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any proceeding shall be 
instituted by or against the Company or any Subsidiary seeking to 
adjudicate any of them a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, 
winding up or reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, 
relief or composition of its debts under any Law relating to bankruptcy, 
insolvency or reorganization; or


				66
<PAGE>

	(b)	by either the Company or Parent if the Effective Time shall 
not have occurred by June 30, 1997; provided, however, that the right 
to terminate this Agreement under this Section 10.01(b) shall not be 
available to any party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under this 
Agreement shall have been the cause of, or shall have resulted in, the 
failure of the Effective Time to occur on or prior to such date; or

	(c)	by either Parent or the Company in the event that any 
Governmental Authority shall have issued a final, non-applicable order, 
decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently, enjoining or 
otherwise prohibiting the transactions contemplated by this Agreement 
and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final 
and nonappealable; or

	(d)	by the Company if, between the date hereof and the Effective 
Time any representation, warranty or covenant of Parent contained in 
this Agreement shall have been breached such that the conditions set 
forth in Section 8.02(a) would or could not be satisfied by June 30, 
1997, or Parent makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, 
or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against Parent seeking to 
adjudicate it bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up 
or reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief or 
composition of its debts under any Law relating to bankruptcy, 
insolvency or reorganization; or

	(e)	by the mutual written consent of the Company and Parent.

		SECTION 10.02.  Effect of Termination.  In the event of 
termination of this Agreement as provided in Section 10.01, this 
Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no liability 
on the part of either party hereto except (a) as set forth in 11.01 and (b) 
that nothing herein shall relieve either party from liability for any 
willful breach of this Agreement.

		SECTION 10.03.  Waiver.  Either party to this Agreement 
may (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or 
other acts of the other party, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the 
representations and warranties of the other party contained herein or in 
any document delivered by the other party pursuant hereto or (c) waive 
compliance with any of the agreements or conditions of the other party 
contained herein.  Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if 
set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the party to be bound 
thereby.  Any waiver of any term or condition shall not be construed as 
a waiver of any subsequent breach or a subsequent waiver of the same 
term or condition, or a waiver of any other term or condition, of this 
Agreement.  The failure of any party to assert any of its rights 
hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any of such rights.

ARTICLE XI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

		SECTION 11.01.  Expenses.  Except as otherwise specified in 
this Agreement, all costs and expenses, including, without limitation, 
fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and accountants, 
incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions 
contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such costs and 
expenses, whether or not the Effective Time shall have occurred.

		SECTION 11.02.  Notices.  All notices, requests, claims, 
demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and 
shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by courier service, by cable, 
by telecopy, by telegram, by telex or by registered or certified mail 
(postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties at the 
following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be 
specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 11.02):



				67
<PAGE>

		(a) if to the Company:

		NeXT Software, Inc.
		900 Chesapeake Drive
		Redwood City, California 94063
		Telecopy:  (415) 780-3714
		Attention:  Nancy Heinen, Esq.with a copy to:

		Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati
		650 Page Mill Road
		Palo Alto, California  94304-1050
		Telecopy:  (415) 493-6811
		Attention:  Larry Sonsini, Esq.

		and

		(b) if to Parent or Merger Sub:

		Apple Computer, Inc.
		1 Infinite Loop
		Cupertino, California 95014
		Telecopy:  (408) 974-2023
		Attention:  Mr. Fred D. Anderson

		with a copy to:

		Shearman & Sterling
		555 California Street
		San Francisco, CA  94104
		Telecopy:  (415) 616-1199
		Attention:  William H. Hinman, Esq.

		SECTION 11.03.  Public Announcements.  No party to this 
Agreement shall make, or cause to be made, any press release or public 
announcement in respect of this Agreement or the transactions 
contemplated hereby or otherwise communicate with any news media 
without prior consent of the other parties, subject, in the case of Parent, 
to Parent's obligations to comply with applicable securities laws and 
NNM listing requirements, and the parties shall cooperate as to the 
timing and contents of any such press release or public announcement.

		SECTION 11.04.  Headings.  The descriptive headings 
contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and 
shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this 
Agreement.

		SECTION 11.05.  Severability.  If any term or other 
provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being 
enforced by any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of 
this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force andeffect so long 
as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated 
hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party.  
Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, 
illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate 
in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original 
intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in 
order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as 
originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.

		SECTION 11.06.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement 
constitutes the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the 
subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior 
				68
<PAGE>

agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, between the 
Company and Parent with respect to the subject matter hereof and 
thereof.

		SECTION 11.07.  Assignment.  This Agreement may not be 
assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the express written 
consent of the Company, Merger Sub and Parent (which consent may 
be granted or withheld in the sole discretion of the Company, Merger 
Sub or Parent).

		SECTION 11.08.  No Third Party Beneficiaries.  This 
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the 
parties hereto and their permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or 
implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any legal 
or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or 
by reason of this Agreement.

		SECTION 11.09.  Amendment.  This Agreement may not be 
amended or modified except (a) by an instrument in writing signed by, 
or on behalf of, the Company, Merger Sub and Parent or (b) by a 
waiver in accordance with Section 10.03.

		SECTION 11.10.  Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be 
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of 
California applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed 
entirely within that state.

		SECTION 11.11.  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be 
executed in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto 
in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed 
to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one 
and the same agreement.































				69
<PAGE>

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, Parent and Merger Sub have 
caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above 
by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.



NEXT SOFTWARE, INC.


By: 	/s/  STEVEN P. JOBS
Name:	Steven P. Jobs
Title:  	Chairman of the Board and
	Chief Executive Officer


APPLE COMPUTER, INC.


By: 	/s/  GILBERT F. AMELIO
Name:	Gilbert F. Amelio	
Title:	Chairman of the Board and 
	Chief Executive Officer



BLACKBIRD ACQUISITION CORPORATION


By: 	/s/  GILBERT F. AMELIO
Name:	Gilbert F. Amelio	
Title:  	President





	CONFORMED COPY















				70
<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>
			

EXHIBIT 10.A.41

November 26, 1996



John (Jack) B. Douglas III
Reebok International Ltd.
100 Technology Center Drive
Stoughton, MA 02072



Employment Agreement



Dear Jack:

		The following sets forth our agreement regarding the 
terms and provisions of your employment as an officer and employee of 
Apple Computer, Inc. (the"Company"). Capitalized words which are 
not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such 
words in Section 6 of this Agreement.

		1.	Commencement of Employment. Your 
employment under this Agreement shall commence on January 6, 1997 
(the "Effective Date").

		2.	Position.  You shall be employed as Senior 
Vice President and General Counsel of the Company and shall report 
directly to me and your duties and responsibilities to the Company shall 
be consistent in all respects with such position. You shall devote 
substantially all of your business time, attention, skills and efforts 
exclusively to the business and affairs of the Company, other than de 
minimis  amounts of time devoted by you to the management of your 
personal finances or to engaging in charitable or community services. 
Your principal place of employment shall be the executive offices of 
the Company in Cupertino, California, although you understand and 
agree that you will be required to travel from time to time for business 
purposes. 

		3.	Compensation.

		(a)	Base Salary.  As compensation to you for all 
services rendered to the Company and its subsidiaries, the Company 
will pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than three hundred 
sixty thousand dollars ($360,000) per annum as of the Effective Date. 
Your base salary will be paid to you in accordance with the Company's 
regular payroll practices applicable to its executive employees.

		(b)	Bonus.  You shall be eligible to participate 
in the annual Senior Executive Bonus Plan (domestic) sponsored by the 
Company or any successor plan thereto. Such bonus program shall 
afford you the opportunity to earn an annual bonus for each fiscal year 
of the Company during your employment. During the Company's 
Fiscal Year 1997 only, your Target Annual Bonus shall be 67% of your 
Base Compensation, or two hundred forty one thousand, two hundred 
dollars ($241,200) prorated for that portion of the Company's Fiscal 
Year 1997 during
				71
<PAGE>

which you are employed.  The amount of your Target Annual Bonus 
thereafter, expressed as a percentage of your Base Compensation, shall 
be reviewed annually by the Company but shall not be less than 67% 
of your Base Compensation so long as you remain employed in the 
position of Senior Vice President and General Counsel.  Each annual 
bonus shall be paid to you in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the bonus plan then in effect.

	(c)	Hiring Bonus.  Subject to other provisions 
of this Agreement, the Company shall pay you a Hiring Bonus in the 
amount of seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000) and shall be paid to 
you within thirty (30) days after the Effective Date of this Agreement.  
If you voluntarily terminate your employment with the Company 
within six (6) months of the Effective Date, you may be responsible for 
reimbursement of all or part of the hiring bonus.

		(d)	Stock Options.  In consideration of this 
Agreement, we will recommend to the Apple Computer, Inc. Board of 
Directors an initial stock option grant of 100,000 shares of Apple 
Computer, Inc. common stock.  Each grant vests over a three year 
period at 33% increments beginning one year from the grant date and 
shall at all times be subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple 
Computer, Inc. 1990 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and any successor 
plans thereto ("Stock Plan").  You shall be eligible to participate in the 
Stock Plan established by the Company in accordance with the terms 
and provisions of the Stock Plan.   

		(e)	Benefits. You shall be eligible to participate 
in all employee benefit plans and arrangements that the Company 
provides to its executive employees in accordance with the terms of 
such plans and arrangements, which shall be no less favorable to you, 
in the aggregate, than the terms and provisions available to other 
executive employees of the Company.  

		4.	Termination.

		(a)Termination for Cause.  If your employment is 
terminated by the Company for Cause, the Company shall pay you the 
full amount of the accrued but unpaid base salary you have earned 
through the date of your termination, plus a cash payment (calculated 
on the basis of your base salary then in effect) for all unused accrued 
vacation.  In addition, you shall be entitled to benefits under the 
employee plans and arrangements described in Section 3(e) above in 
accordance with terms and provisions of such plans and arrangements.

	(b)Termination Other than for Cause.  During the 
three (3) year period following the Effective Date only, if your 
employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than for 
Cause, the Company shall pay you the full amount of the accrued but 
unpaid base salary you have earned through the date of your 
termination, plus a cash payment (calculated on the basis of your base 
salary then in effect) for all unused accrued vacation.  In addition,  
during the three (3) year period following the Effective Date only, the 
Company shall pay you a lump sum amount depending on the date of 
your employment termination as follows:

Termination Date		Amount

During 1-year period 		100% of annual base salary 
following Effective Date	($360,000)
				100% of Target Annual Bonus
				($241,200)
				
Following first anniversary	100% of annual base salary 
of Effective Date		100% of target annual bonus

											
There shall be no other payments or benefits on termination.


				72
<PAGE>

		5.	Relocation.  The Company will provide you 
with full executive relocation benefits in accordance with the 
Company's Relocation Policy for executives including mortgage 
assistance in the amount of four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) or 
25% of the purchase price of your new California residence, whichever 
is less.  The Company also shall pay for travel expenses for you and 
your wife to come to California during the month of December, 1996.  
Any additional relocation items or arrangements will be determined in 
writing as authorized by the Company's Senior Vice President of 
Human Resources.

		6.	Definitions.  For purposes of this 
Agreement, the following capitalized words shall have the meanings set 
forth below:

		"Cause" shall mean a termination of your 
employment which is a result of (i) your felony conviction, (ii) your 
willful disclosure of material trade secrets or other material confidential 
information related to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries 
or (iii) your willful and continued failure substantially to perform your 
duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from 
your incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any such actual or 
anticipated failure resulting from a resignation by you) after a written 
demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the 
Company's Chief Executive Officer, which demand specifically 
identifies the manner in which the Company believes that you have not 
substantially performed your duties, and which performance is not 
substantially corrected by you within 10 days of receipt of such demand.   
For purposes of the previous sentence, no act or failure to act on your 
part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by 
you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your action or 
omission was in the best interest of the Company.

		7.	Notice.  For the purpose of this Agreement, 
notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement 
shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when 
delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt 
requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the Apple Computer, Inc., 1 
Infinite Loop, MS 75-8A, Cupertino, California 95014, Attn.: George 
Scalise, Chief Administrative Officer, or to you at the address set forth 
on the first page of this Agreement or to such other address as either 
party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, 
except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon 
receipt.

		8.	Miscellaneous.  

		(a)	Amendments, Waivers, Etc.  No provision 
of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such 
waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing.  No waiver by 
either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto 
of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement 
to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar 
or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or 
subsequent time.  No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, 
express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been 
made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this 
Agreement and this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, 
negotiations, correspondence, undertakings and communications of the 
parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof.

	(b)	Validity.  The invalidity or unenforceability 
of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or 
enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall 
remain in full force and effect.

	(c)	Counterparts.  This Agreement may be 
executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an 
original but all of which together will constitute one and the same 
instrument.



				73
<PAGE>

	(d)	Withholding.  Amounts paid to you 
hereunder shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local 
withholding taxes.

	(e)	Source of Payments.  All payments provided 
under this Agreement, other than payments made pursuant to a plan 
which provides otherwise, shall be paid in cash from the general funds 
of the Company, and no special or separate fund shall be established, 
and no other segregation of assets made, to assure payment.  You will 
have no right, title or interest whatsoever in or to any investments 
which the Company may make to aid it in meeting its obligations 
hereunder.  To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive 
payments from the Company hereunder, such right shall be no greater 
than the right of an unsecured creditor of the Company.

	(f)	Headings.  The headings contained in this 
Agreement are intended solely for convenience of reference and shall not 
affect the rights of the parties to this Agreement.

	(g)	Governing Law.  The validity, 
interpretation, construction, and performance of this Agreement shall be 
governed by the laws of the State of California applicable to contracts 
entered into and performed in such State.

		    *       *       *       *

	If this letter sets forth our agreement on the terms and 
conditions of your employment with the Company, kindly sign and 
return to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter which will then 
constitute our agreement on this subject.

		Sincerely,

		APPLE COMPUTER, INC.



	By__/s/ George Scalise
	         George Scalise




	Agreed to as of this 2nd day of December, 1996.



		__/s/ John B. Douglas III__
    	    	      John B. Douglas III














				74

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>ART. 5 FDS FOR FY97 FORM 
10-K
<FLAWED>
<TEXT>
WARNING: THE EDGAR SYSTEM ENCOUNTERED ERROR(S) WHILE PROCESSING THIS SCHEDULE.

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE>		5

<MULTIPLIER>			1,000,000
       	
<S>				<C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>			3-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>		SEP-26-1997
<PERIOD-END>			DEC-27-1996
	
<CASH>				1,174
<SECURITIES>			  633
<RECEIVABLES>			1,584
<ALLOWANCES>			   92
<INVENTORY>			  488
<CURRENT-ASSETS>		4,419
<PP&E>				1,327
<DEPRECIATION>			  734
<TOTAL-ASSETS>			5,272
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>		2,044
<BONDS>				  950
<COMMON>			  442
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>		    0
<PREFERRED>			    0
<OTHER-SE>			1,500
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>	5,272
	
<SALES>				2,129
<TOTAL-REVENUES>		2,129
<CGS>				1,732
<TOTAL-COSTS>			1,732
<OTHER-EXPENSES>		  521
<LOSS-PROVISION>	  	    0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>		   18
<INCOME-PRETAX>			 (120)
<INCOME-TAX>			    0
<INCOME-CONTINUING>		 (120)
<DISCONTINUED>			    0
<EXTRAORDINARY>			    0
<CHANGES>			    0
<NET-INCOME>			 (120)
<EPS-PRIMARY>			(0.96)
<EPS-DILUTED>			(0.96)







				75
<PAGE>

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
