-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JRFFcMaRQwjz5KsdafKA5AHsRYvUf8t6Ig0pcrqFHKhpIJl/FOz3gEjHy3yZPGQN
 rRmgyQ9KcIWSGbH5lZiNew==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000320193-96-000002.txt : 19960216
<SEC-HEADER>0000320193-96-000002.hdr.sgml : 19960216
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000320193-96-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-Q
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19951229
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960212
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLE COMPUTER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000320193
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS [3571]
		IRS NUMBER:				942404110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-Q
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10030
		FILM NUMBER:		96516045

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20525 MARIANI AVE
		CITY:			CUPERTINO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95014
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4089961010
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-Q
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

                                        
   ___________________________________________________________________________
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                        
                                        
                                    Form 10-Q
                                        
          (Mark One)
          
          [X]  Quarterly  report pursuant to Section 13  or  15(d)  of  the
               Securities  Exchange Act of 1934

          For the quarterly period ended December 29, 1995 or

          [ ]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or  15(d)  of
               the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

          For the transition period from __________ to __________

                         Commission file number 0-10030
                                        
                               APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
                                        
              CALIFORNIA                          94-2404110
    [State or other jurisdiction     [I.R.S. Employer Identification No.]
  of incorporation or organization]
                                     
          1 Infinite Loop                           95014
        Cupertino California                      [Zip Code]
 [Address of principal executive offices]
                                        
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 996-1010
            
                                        
Indicate  by  check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                             Yes  [X]  No   [ ]
                                        
                                        
      123,656,178 shares of Common Stock Issued and Outstanding as of 
                             February 2, 1996
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
   ___________________________________________________________________________
<PAGE>

       PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements
                                        
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
                 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)



                                                    THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                 December 29,  December 30,
                                                      1995         1994
                                                            
Net sales                                           $ 3,148     $ 2,832
                                                                  
Costs and expenses:                                               
                                                                  
Cost of sales                                         2,673       2,018
Research and development                                153         132
Selling, general and administrative                     441         415
Restructuring costs                                      --        (17)
                                                                  
                                                      3,267       2,548
                                                                  
Operating income (loss)                               (119)         284
Interest and other income                              
  (expense), net                                         10          15
                                                                            
Income (loss) before income taxes                     (109)         299
Income tax provision (benefit)                         (40)	    111
                                                                            
Net income (loss)                                   $  (69)     $   188
                                                                            
Earnings (loss) per common and                     
  common equivalent share                           $(0.56)     $  1.55
                                                                             
Cash dividends paid per common share                $   .12     $   .12
                                                                     
Common and common equivalent shares
  used in the calculations of                         
  earnings (loss) per share (in                              
  thousands)                                        122,994     121,600



                             See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        2
<PAGE>
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                        
                                     ASSETS
                                  (In millions)


                                              December 29,      September 29,
                                                     1995               1995    
                                               (Unaudited)           

Current assets:                                             
                                                            
Cash and cash equivalents                           $  824         $  756
Short-term investments                                 276            196
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for                                
  doubtful accounts of $92 ($87 at September           
  29, 1995)                                          1,944          1,931
Inventories:                                                             
  Purchased parts                                      707            841
  Work in process                                      250            291
  Finished goods                                       990            643
                                                     1,947          1,775
                                                                         
Deferred tax assets                                    302            251
Other current assets                                   258            315
                                                                         
  Total current assets                               5,551          5,224
                                                                         
Property, plant, and equipment:                                          
                                                                         
Land and buildings                                     516            504
Machinery and equipment                                646            638
Office furniture and equipment                         143            145
Leasehold improvements                                 199            205
                                                     1,504          1,492
                                                                         
Accumulated depreciation and amortization            (792)          (781)
                                                                         
  Net property, plant, and equipment                   712            711
                                                                         
Other assets                                           290            296
                                                                         
                                                   $ 6,553        $ 6,231
                                                                         
                       
  

                             See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        3
<PAGE>
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)
                                        
                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                              (Dollars in millions)

                                                            
                                              December 29,    September 29,
                                                    1995             1995 
                                               (Unaudited)         

Current liabilities:                                        
                                                            
Short-term borrowings                             $    498     $    461
Accounts payable                                     1,431        1,165
Accrued compensation and employee benefits             125          131
Accrued marketing and distribution                     284          206
Other current liabilities                              367          362
                                                                       
  Total current liabilities                          2,705        2,325
                                                                       
                                                                       
Long-term debt                                         304          303
Deferred tax liabilities                               750          702
                                                                       
Shareholders' equity:                                                  
                                                                       
Common stock, no par value; 320,000,000                                 
  authorized; 123,118,433 shares issued                           
  and outstanding at December 29, 1995                  
  (122,921,601 shares at September 29, 1995)           404          398
Retained earnings                                    2,380        2,464
Accumulated translation adjustment and other            10           39
                                                                       
  Total shareholders' equity                         2,794        2,901
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                   $ 6,553      $ 6,231
                                               
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                             See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        4
<PAGE>
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  (Unaudited)
                                  (In millions)
                                                                      
                                                         
                                                     THREE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                
                                                December 29,   December 30,
                                                      1995           1994
                                                            
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the      
  period                                          $  756       $ 1,203
                                                                      
Operations:                                                           
                                                                      
Net income (loss)                                   (69)           188
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss)                            
to cash generated by operations:                                          
    Depreciation and amortization                     42            38
    Net book value of property, plant, and            
     equipment retirements                             1             5
Changes in assets and liabilities:                                    
   Accounts receivable                              (13)          (18)
   Inventories                                     (172)             4
   Deferred tax assets                              (51)            24
   Other current assets                               57            77
   Accounts payable                                  266            74
   Income taxes payable                             (67)          (31)
   Accrued marketing and distribution                 78            97
   Other current liabilities                          67          (66)
   Deferred tax liabilities                           48            61
         Cash generated by operations                187           453
                                                                      
Investments:                                                          
                                                                      
Purchase of short-term investments                 (244)         (410)
Proceeds from sale of short-term investments         164            25
Purchase of property, plant, and equipment          (31)          (22)
Other                                               (36)          (12)
         Cash used for investment activities       (147)         (419)
                                                                      
Financing:                                                            
                                                                      
Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings          37          (83)
Increase (decrease) in long-term borrowings            1           (1)
Increases in common stock, net of related              
  tax benefits					       5             9
Cash dividends                                      (15)          (14)
         Cash generated by (used for)            
           financing activities                       28          (89)
                                                                      
Total cash generated (used)                           68          (55)
                                                                      
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period      $  824       $ 1,148
                                                           
                             See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        5
<PAGE>
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)

1. Interim  information  is  unaudited; however,  in  the  opinion  of  the
   Company's management, all adjustments necessary for a fair statement  of
   interim  results have been included.  All adjustments are  of  a  normal
   recurring nature unless specified in a separate note included  in  these
   Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements.  The results  for  interim
   periods  are  not necessarily indicative of results to be  expected  for
   the  entire year.  These financial statements and notes should  be  read
   in   conjunction  with  the  Company's  annual  consolidated   financial
   statements  and  the notes thereto for the fiscal year  ended  September
   29,  1995, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
   September 29, 1995 (the "1995 Form 10-K").

2. Interest and other income (expense), net, consists of the
   following:  (In millions)
     
                                            Three Months Ended
                                       December 29,  December 30,
                                             1995          1994
                                                       
   Interest income                        $    17      $   19
   Interest expense                          (17)         (7)
   Gain on foreign exchange instruments        18           9
   Net premiums and discounts paid on                      
    forward and option foreign exchange      
    instruments                               (7)         (3)
   Other income (expense), net                (1)         (3)
                                          $    10      $   15

3. The  Company's  cash  equivalents consist primarily of  U.S.  Government
   securities,  Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper with  maturities
   of   three   months  or  less  at  the  date  of  purchase.   Short-term
   investments  consist principally of Euro-dollar deposits and  commercial
   paper  with  maturities between three and twelve months.  The  Company's
   marketable  equity  securities  consist of  securities  issued  by  U.S.
   corporations  and  are included in "Other assets"  on  the  accompanying
   balance  sheet.  The Company's cash equivalents, short-term investments,
   and  marketable  equity securities are classified and accounted  for  as
   available-for-sale and are generally held until maturity.

   The  adjustments recorded to shareholders' equity for unrealized holding
   gains  (losses)  on available-for-sale cash equivalents  and  short-term
   investments were not material, either individually or in the  aggregate,
   at  December  29,  1995.  The net adjustment recorded  to  shareholders'
   equity  for  unrealized  holding gains (losses)  related  to  marketable
   equity  securities was an unrealized gain of approximately  $18  million
   at  December 29, 1995.  The realized gains (losses) recorded to earnings
   on  sales  of available-for-sale securities, either individually  or  in
   the  aggregate,  were not material for the three months  ended  December
   29, 1995.

4. U.S.  income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total of  $400
   million  of  undistributed earnings of certain of the Company's  foreign
   subsidiaries.   It is intended that these earnings will be  indefinitely
   invested  in  operations  outside of  the  United  States.   It  is  not
   practicable  to  determine  the  income  tax  liability  that  might  be
   incurred  if  these earnings were to be distributed.   Except  for  such
   indefinitely  invested earnings, the Company provides  for  federal  and
   state  income  taxes  currently  on undistributed  earnings  of  foreign
   subsidiaries.

   The  Internal  Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal  income  tax
   deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1991, and the Company  has  made
   certain   prepayments  thereon.   The  Company  contested  the  proposed
   deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1988, and most of the issues  in
   dispute  for these years have been resolved.  On June 29, 1995, the  IRS
   issued  a notice of deficiency proposing increases to the amount of  the
   Company's  federal  income taxes for the years 1989 through  1991.   The
   Company  has  filed  a  petition with the United  States  Tax  Court  to
   contest  these  alleged  tax  deficiencies.   Management  believes  that
   adequate  provision has been made for any adjustments  that  may  result
   from these tax examinations.

5. Earnings  per  share is computed using the weighted  average  number  of
   common  and  dilutive  common equivalent shares  attributable  to  stock
   options  outstanding  during the period.  Loss  per  share  is  computed
   using  the  weighted average number of common shares outstanding  during
   the period.

                                        6
<PAGE>

6. Certain prior year amounts on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
   have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.

7. No  dividend  has been declared for the first quarter of 1996,  and  the
   Board  of  Directors does not anticipate that dividends will be declared
   in the near future given the financial condition of the Company.

8. The  information  set  forth  in Item 1 of  Part  II  hereof  is  hereby
   incorporated by reference.















































                                        7
<PAGE>

      

      Item  2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
      Results of Operations
 
The   following  information  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with   the
consolidated  financial statements and notes thereto.  All  information  is
based on Apple's fiscal calendar.
(Tabular information: Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Except  for  historical information contained herein,  the  statements  set
forth   in   this  Item  2  are  forward-looking  and  involve  risks   and
uncertainties.   For  information regarding potential  factors  that  could
affect  the  Company's financial results refer to pages 11  -  15  of  this
Management  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results  of
Operations  under the heading  "Factors That May Affect Future Results  and
Financial Condition."

Results of Operations
                                    First         First     
                                  Quarter       Quarter
                                   1996            1995    Change
                                                                
Net sales                       $   3,148   $    2,832     11.2%
Gross margin                    $     475   $      814    -41.6%
  Percentage of net sales           15.1%        28.7%          
Operating expenses (excluding   
restructuring costs)            $     594   $      547      8.6%
  Percentage of net sales           18.9%        19.3%          
Restructuring costs             $      --   $     (17)        --
  Percentage of net sales              --        -0.6%          
Net income (loss)               $     (69)  $      188   -136.7%
Earnings (loss) per share       $   (0.56)  $     1.55   -136.1%
                                                      
Net Sales

Net  sales  for  the  first quarter of 1996 increased over  the  comparable
period  of 1995, primarily resulting from a combination of unit growth  and
slightly higher average aggregate revenue per Macintosh (registered trademark)
computer unit.  Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased 12% in the 
first quarter of 1996, over the comparable period of 1995.   This unit  
sales growth principally resulted from strong sales of the Company's 
PowerPC  (registered trademark)  products, which  accounted for over 78% of 
total unit shipments at  the  end  of  the first  quarter of 1996, compared 
with 26% in the comparable period of 1995.  Specifically, unit sale increases
were within the Power Macintosh (trademark) and  the Performa (registered 
trademark)  families of desktop personal computers.  This unit  growth  was
partially offset by declining unit sales of certain of the Company's  older
product offerings.  The increase in average aggregate revenue per Macintosh
computer  unit  of approximately 7% in the first quarter of 1996  over  the
comparable  period  of  1995  was driven by a  shift  in  mix  towards  the
Company's  newer  products  and products with  multi-media  configurations.
Specifically,  the  Company recorded increased revenue  from  the  sale  of
products within the Power Macintosh family of personal computers.

International  net sales grew 19% in the first quarter of  1996,  over  the
comparable period of 1995, primarily reflecting strong net sales growth  in
Japan  and  certain  countries  within  Europe.   International  net  sales
represented 51% of total net sales for the first quarter of 1996,  compared
with  47%  for the corresponding period of 1995.  Domestic net  sales  grew
approximately  4% in the first quarter of 1996, over the comparable  period
of 1995.

In  general, the Company's resellers typically purchase products on an  as-
needed  basis.   Resellers frequently change delivery schedules  and  order
rates depending on changing market conditions.  Unfilled orders ("backlog")
can  be,  and  often are, canceled at will.  The Company attempts  to  fill
orders   on  the  requested  delivery  schedules.   The  Company's  backlog
decreased  to  approximately  $365  million  at  February  2,  1996,   from
approximately  $618  million  at December 1, 1995,  primarily  due  to  the
Company satisfying product backlog that existed at December 1, 1995.

In  the  Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at  any
particular  time is not necessarily a meaningful indication of  its  future
business prospects.  In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation
of  or  immediately following introduction of new products because of over-
ordering  by  dealers  anticipating shortages.  Backlog  often  is  reduced
sharply  once  dealers  and customers believe they  can  obtain  sufficient
supply.   Because of the foregoing, as well as other factors affecting  the
Company's backlog, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of
the  Company's  ability  to  achieve any particular  level  of  revenue  or
financial performance.
                                        8
<PAGE>

Gross Margin

Gross margin represents the difference between the Company's net sales  and
its  cost  of goods sold.  The amount of revenue generated by the  sale  of
products is influenced principally by the price set by the Company for  its
products relative to competitive products.  The cost of goods sold is based
primarily  on  the cost of components and to a lesser extent, direct  labor
costs.    The   type  and  cost  of  components  included   in   particular
configurations of the Company's products (such as memory and  disk  drives)
are often directly related to the need to market products in configurations
competitive with other manufacturers.  Competition in the personal computer
industry is intense, and in the short term, frequent changes in pricing and
product  configuration are often necessary in order to remain  competitive.
Accordingly, gross margin as a percentage of net sales can be significantly
influenced  in  the  short term by actions undertaken  by  the  Company  in
response to industrywide competitive pressures.

Gross  margin  decreased both in amount and as a percentage  of  net  sales
during the first quarter of 1996, over the comparable period of 1995.   The
decrease  in  gross  margin as a percentage of net sales  was  primarily  a
result  of:  aggressive  pricing actions in Japan in  response  to  extreme
competitive  actions by other companies attempting to  gain  market  share;
pricing  actions  in both the U.S. and Europe on certain configurations  of
entry level and PowerBook (registered trademark) products in order to 
stimulate demand; lower  of cost  or market adjustments charged to cost of 
sales due to pricing certain products  in  specific markets (particularly 
Japan) at  below  manufactured cost  in  response  to  competitive actions; 
and  implementing  changes  in production  plans  in  response  to  lower  
than  expected  demand,   which necessitated  the  financial write-off of 
components,  canceling  component orders and incurring cancellation charges.

Pressures on gross margin are continuing in the second quarter of  1996  as
the  Company  has  taken  further initiatives to lower  prices  and  reduce
inventories.   These  actions  could result in further  inventory  charges,
expenses related to changes in production plans and cancellation charges.

The  decrease in gross margin levels in the first quarter of 1996  compared
with  the corresponding period of 1995 was somewhat offset by a weaker U.S.
dollar  relative  to  certain foreign currencies.  The Company's  operating
strategy and pricing take into account changes in exchange rates over time;
however,  the Company's results of operations can be significantly affected
in the short term by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

It is anticipated that gross margins will continue to remain under pressure
and  will  remain  below prior years' levels due to a variety  of  factors,
including  continued  industrywide  pricing  pressures  around  the  world,
increased  competition, compressed product life cycles,  and  the  need  to
reduce  current  inventory levels.  Gross margins  declined  in  the  first
quarter of 1996 compared with the fourth quarter of 1995 and are likely  to
decline further in the second quarter of 1996.


Research and Development            First       First             
                                  Quarter      Quarter
                                     1996        1995       Change
                                                            
Research and development          $   153     $   132        15.9%
Percentage of net sales              4.9%        4.7%             
                                           
Research  and  development expenditures increased in amount  in  the  first
quarter of 1996 when compared with the corresponding period of 1995.   This
increase  is primarily due to higher project and headcount related spending
as  the Company continues to invest in the development of new products  and
technologies.

As  a  percentage  of  net  sales, research  and  development  expenditures
remained  relatively consistent in the first quarter of 1996 when  compared
with the corresponding period of 1995.

The Company believes that continued investments in research and development
are  critical  to  its  future  growth  and  competitive  position  in  the
marketplace  and are directly related to continued, timely  development  of
new  and enhanced products.  Going forward, the Company intends to simplify
its  product  portfolio  to  focus its offerings primarily  on  innovative,
differentiated  and  best-of-class products in its key market  segments  in
education, business and the home.




                                        9
<PAGE>



                                    First       First             
                                  Quarter      Quarter
Selling, General and                 1996        1995       Change
 Administrative

Selling, general and              $   441     $   415         6.3%
 administrative
Percentage of net sales             14.0%       14.7%             
                                          
Selling,  general and administrative expenses increased in  amount  in  the
first  quarter of 1996 when compared with the corresponding period of 1995.
This  increase  was  primarily a result of increased  spending  related  to
marketing  and  advertising programs.  Selling, general and  administrative
expenses  decreased as a percentage of net sales in the  first  quarter  of
1996  when compared with the corresponding period of 1995, primarily  as  a
result  of an increase in the level of net sales and the Company's  ongoing
efforts to manage operating expense growth as a percentage of net sales.

The  Company  will  continue  to face the challenge  of  managing  selling,
general and administrative expenses, particularly in light of the Company's
expectation   of  continued  pressure  on  gross  margins   and   continued
competitive pressures worldwide.
                                                      
Restructuring Costs                 First       First            
                                  Quarter     Quarter
                                     1996        1995      Change
                                                                 
                                                                 
Restructuring costs                    --    $   (17)          --
Percentage of net sales                --      (0.6%)          --
                                                      
For  information  regarding  the Company's current  restructuring  actions,
refer  to  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition  and
Results  of  Operations under the heading "Factors That May  Affect  Future
Results  and  Financial Condition" under the subheading  "Restructuring  of
Operations."
                                                      
Interest and Other Income           First       First
(Expense), Net                    Quarter      Quarter
                                     1996        1995      Change
                                                      
Interest and other income         
 (expense), net                    $   10      $   15      -33.3%
                                                      
Interest and other income (expense), net decreased to $10 million in income
in the first quarter of 1996 compared with $15 million in income during the
same period in 1995.  This $5 million decrease in interest and other income
(expense), net is comprised of $14 million unfavorable variance related to:
increased  interest  expense  as  a result  of  higher  debt  balances  and
borrowing  rates; increased foreign exchange hedging costs  due  to  higher
foreign currency receivable balances; and decreased interest income as cash
balances  were lower.  The unfavorable change in interest and other  income
was offset in part by a $9 million increase in income related primarily  to
realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging gains in the first quarter
of  1996  compared with the same period in 1995.  The Company expects  that
its  cost  of funds will increase as a result of the recent downgrading  of
its  short-  and long-term debt to P-3 and Baa3, respectively,  by  Moody's
Investor  Services, and to B and BB-, respectively, by Standard and  Poor's
Rating Agency.
                                                      
Income Tax Provision                 First       First            
(Benefit)                          Quarter      Quarter
                                      1996        1995      Change
                                                      
Income tax provision (benefit)    $   (40)     $   111     -136.0%
Effective tax rate                     37%         37%            
                                                      
The  information contained in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements (Unaudited) in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report  on  Form
10-Q is incorporated by reference into this discussion.


                                       10
<PAGE>

Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition

The   Company's  future  operating  results  and  financial  condition  are
dependent  on  the Company's ability to successfully develop,  manufacture,
and  market  technologically innovative products in order to  meet  dynamic
customer demand patterns.  Inherent in this process are a number of factors
that  the  Company  must successfully manage in order to achieve  favorable
future  operating  results and financial condition.   Potential  risks  and
uncertainties that could affect the Company's future operating results  and
financial   condition  include,  without  limitation,  continued  competitive
pressures  in the marketplace; the effect any reaction to such  competitive
pressures has on inventory levels and inventory valuations; the effects  of
significant  adverse publicity; the impact of uncertainties concerning  the
Company's  strategic  direction  and financial  condition  on  revenue  and
liquidity;  the effect of continued degradation in the Company's liquidity;
and the need for and effect of any business restructuring actions.

The  Company expects to report an operating loss for the second quarter  of
1996  that  will  significantly exceed the operating loss of  $69  million,
after  taxes,  reported  in  the first quarter of  1996.   The  anticipated
operating  loss, which is largely attributable to declining  sales  due  to
marketplace  uncertainty  about  the  Company's  strategic  direction   and
prospects,  does  not include the financial impact of  charges  related  to
restructuring actions.

Restructuring of Operations

As  announced on January 17, 1996, the Company is currently implementing  a
reorganization  plan  which is aimed at beginning to  bring  the  Company's
business model in line with major strategic goals and at the same  time  to
move  toward  improving  the cost and competitiveness  of  its  operations.
Initial  actions planned to begin in the second quarter of 1996 will  focus
on  streamlining the Company's business operations.  These initial  actions
are expected to result in pre-tax charges of at least $125 million, and are
primarily  comprised  of headcount reductions in the selling,  general  and
administrative  areas  of at least 1,300 full-time employees,  as  well  as
evaluating the Company's various business investments.  The Company expects
to incur future restructuring charges as the several phases of the business
reorganization  are  developed and implemented.  These plans  may  include,
among   other   actions,   outsourcing  of   certain   administrative   and
manufacturing  functions.  In addition, the Company intends to  refine  its
product  plans by reducing the number of products within certain categories
in  an  effort  to  improve  overall contribution.   The  Company's  future
operating  results and financial condition could be adversely  affected  by
its  ability to effectively manage the transition to the new business model
and cost structure.

Implementation of the Company's restructuring actions may adversely  affect
the Company's ability to retain and motivate employees.  In addition, while
the  restructuring  actions  are  expected  to  lower  the  fixed  cost  of
operations,  it  could  also reduce the direct  control  that  the  Company
currently has over various functions which may be outsourced.  As such, the
Company  cannot determine the ultimate effect on the quality or  efficiency
of work performed in the event of outsourcing various functions.

Product  Introductions and Transitions

Due  to the highly volatile nature of the personal computer industry, which
is   characterized   by  dynamic  customer  demand   patterns   and   rapid
technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products  and
product  enhancements.   The  success  of  new  product  introductions   is
dependent  on  a  number  of  factors,  including  market  acceptance,  the
Company's  ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions,
the  availability of application software for new products,  the  effective
management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the
manufacturing  of  products in appropriate quantities to  meet  anticipated
demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in
the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of
those  products.   Accordingly, the Company cannot determine  the  ultimate
effect that new products will have on its sales or results of operations.

The  rate of product shipments immediately following introduction of a  new
product  is  not necessarily an indication of the future rate of  shipments
for  that  product, which depends on many factors, some of  which  are  not
under  the control of the Company.  These factors may include initial large
purchases by a small segment of the user population that tends to  purchase
new  technology  prior to its acceptance by the majority of  users  ("early
adopters");  purchases  in  satisfaction of pent-up  demand  by  users  who
anticipated  new  technology and as a result deferred  purchases  of  other
products; and overordering by dealers who anticipate shortages due  to  the
aforementioned factors.  The preceding may also be offset by other factors,
such  as  the  deferral of purchases by many users until new technology  is
accepted  as  "proven"  and for which commonly used software  products  are
available;  and the reduction of orders by dealers once they  believe  they
can obtain sufficient supply of product previously in backlog.


                                       11
<PAGE>

Backlog  is  often  volatile after new product  introductions  due  to  the
aforementioned   demand   factors,   often   increasing   coincident   with
introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers  believe  they
can obtain sufficient supply of product.

The  measurement  of  demand  for  newly  introduced  products  is  further
complicated by the availability of different product configurations,  which
may   include   various  types  of  built-in  peripherals   and   software.
Configurations may also require certain localization (such as language) for
various markets and, as a result, demand in different geographic areas  may
be  a  function  of  the  availability of  third-party  software  in  those
localized  versions.   For example, the availability  of  European-language
versions of software products manufactured by U.S. producers may lag behind
the availability of U.S. versions by a quarter or more. This may result  in
lower  initial  demand for the Company's new products  outside  the  United
States,  even  though localized versions of the Company's products  may  be
available.

As part of its restructuring plan, the Company may reduce the number of new
product  introductions  and intends to reduce the  number  of  products  in
certain  categories  within its product portfolio in  order  to  focus  its
offerings  on  the  Company's key markets and reduce required  investments.
This  simplification  within product lines may have an  adverse  effect  on
sales and on the Company's results of operations and financial condition in
the future.

Competition

The  personal computer industry is highly competitive and continues  to  be
characterized  by  consolidations in the hardware and software  industries,
aggressive pricing practices, and downward pressure on gross margins.   For
example,  in  Japan,  other  companies have initiated  extreme  competitive
actions  in  order to gain market share, and as a result, the  Company  has
implemented  aggressive pricing and promotional activities.  In  the  first
quarter  of  1996,  the  Company's  results  of  operations  and  financial
condition  were,  and  in  the near future are expected  to  be,  adversely
affected by industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures on  gross
margins.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may also  be
affected   by   the  Company's  ability  to  offer  customers   competitive
technologies while effectively managing the impact on inventory levels  and
the potential for customer confusion created by product proliferation.  The
Company's  future  operating results and financial condition  may  also  be
affected  by  overall  demand for personal computers and  general  customer
preferences  for  one platform over another or one set of product  features
over another.

On  November  7, 1994, the Company reached an agreement with  International
Business  Machines Corporation ("IBM") and Motorola, Inc. on a new hardware
reference  platform  for the PowerPC microprocessor  that  is  intended  to
deliver a much wider range of operating system and application choices  for
computer  customers.  As a result of this agreement, the Company is  moving
forward  with its efforts to make the Macintosh operating system  available
on  the  common platform.  In line with its efforts, on November 13,  1995,
the  Company,  IBM,  and Motorola, Inc. announced the availability  of  the
"PowerPC  Platform"  specifications,  which  define  a  "unified"  personal
computer architecture and combine the Power Macintosh platform and  the  PC
environment.   Accordingly,  the Company's  future  operating  results  and
financial condition may be affected by its ability to continue to implement
this  agreement  and to manage the risk associated with the  transition  to
this new hardware reference platform.

The  Company  is  currently the primary maker of  hardware  that  uses  the
Macintosh  operating  system, and it has a minority  market  share  in  the
personal  computer market, which is dominated by makers of  computers  that
run  the  MS-DOS (registered trademark) and Microsoft Windows (trademark) 
operating systems.  The  Company's future  operating results and financial 
condition may be  affected  by  its ability  to  increase market 
share in its personal computer  business.   As part of its efforts to increase
overall market share, the Company announced the  licensing of the Macintosh 
operating system to other personal computer vendors  in  January 1995, and 
several vendors currently sell product  that utilize  the  Macintosh operating
system.  The success  of  the  Company's efforts  to  increase  its overall
market share through  licensing  of  the Macintosh operating system will
depend in part on the Company's ability  to manage  the  risks  associated  
with  competing  with  companies  producing Macintosh  OS-based  computer  
systems.  Accordingly,  the  Company  cannot determine  the  ultimate effect
that licensing of the  Macintosh  operating system  will have on its product
pricing and unit sales or future operating results  and financial condition.
The Company believes that licensing  the operating system will result in a 
broader installed base on which  software vendors  can  develop and provide
technical innovations for  the  Macintosh platform.  However, there can be 
no assurance that the installed base  will be  broadened  by the licensing 
of the operating system or  that  licensing will result in an increase in 
the number of application software titles  or the  rate at which vendors 
will bring to market application software  based on the Macintosh operating 
system.

The  Company's principal competitor in producing operating system software,
Microsoft  Corporation, is a large, well-financed corporation which  has  a
dominant  position  in various segments of the personal  computer  software
industry.   As  a result of the introduction of Windows 95 in August  1995,
the  Company  has  taken and will continue to take  steps  to  address  the
additional

                                       12
<PAGE>

challenges  to  and competitive pressures on its efforts in developing  and
marketing  the  Company's  products.   Accordingly,  the  Company's  future
operating  results  and  financial condition could  be  adversely  affected
should the Company be unable to effectively manage the competitive pressure
and other challenges presented by the introduction of Windows 95.

Certain  of the Company's personal computer products are capable of running
application  software designed for the MS-DOS or Windows operating  systems
("Cross-Platform   Products"),  through   software   emulation   of   Intel
Corporation  microprocessor chips by use of software specifically  designed
for the Company's products, either those based on the Motorola 68000 series
of  microprocessors  or  those  based on the PowerPC  microprocessor.   The
Company  has  also  introduced products that include  both  the  RISC-based
PowerPC 601 microprocessor and the 486 DX2/66 microprocessor, which  enable
users  to  switch  between  the  Macintosh and  DOS  or  Windows  computing
environments.

The  Company plans to supply customers who purchase Cross-Platform Products
capable  of  running  the  MS-DOS  or Windows  3.1  operating  system  with
operating system software under a licensing agreement with Microsoft.  This
license   agreement  expired  on  December  31,  1995  (the  "Old   License
Agreement").  The Company has attempted to license Windows 95 software from
Microsoft   but  has  been  unable  to  do  so  because  of  the  Company's
unwillingness  to consent to Microsoft's demand under Microsoft's  proposed
license agreement (the "New License Agreement") that the Company agree  not
to  sue  Microsoft  if  Microsoft infringes any of the  Company's  patents.
Microsoft  has  also informed the Company that it will not  renew  the  Old
License  Agreement  unless the Company accepts the New  License  Agreement.
Accordingly, the Company is currently unable to supply customers  with  any
of Microsoft's operating systems on Cross-Platform Products except for such
product  that was in inventory as of December 31, 1995.  Although customers
could  obtain  copies of such software from other sources, the  Company  is
unable  to predict the effect of such a situation on the demand for  Cross-
Platform  Products.   Although Cross-Platform Products represented  only  a
small  portion  of  the Company's unit sales during 1995,  the  Company  is
unable  to  predict the effect of such a situation on the Company's  future
operating results.

Decisions  by  customers to purchase the Company's personal  computers,  as
opposed  to  MS-DOS  or  Windows-based systems,  are  often  based  on  the
availability  of  third-party  software for particular  applications.   The
Company  believes that the availability of third-party application software
for  the  Company's  hardware products depends in part on  the  third-party
developers' perception and analysis of the relative benefits of  developing
such software for the Company's products versus software for the larger MS-
DOS  and  Windows market.  This analysis is based on factors  such  as  the
perceived  strength  of  the  Company and  its  products,  the  anticipated
potential  revenue  that may be earned, and the costs  of  developing  such
software  products.   Microsoft Corporation is an  important  developer  of
application  software for the Company's products.  Accordingly, Microsoft's
interest  in producing application software for the Company's products  may
be  influenced by Microsoft's perception of its interests as  an  operating
system vendor.

The  Company's ability to produce and market competitive products  is  also
dependent  on the ability of IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers  of  the
PowerPC  RISC  microprocessor for certain of  the  Company's  products,  to
continue  to  supply to the Company microprocessors that  produce  superior
price/performance  results compared with those supplied  to  the  Company's
competitors  by  Intel  Corporation, the  developer  and  producer  of  the
microprocessors  used  by  most personal computers  using  the  MS-DOS  and
Windows  operating systems.  IBM produces personal computers based  on  the
Intel microprocessors as well as on the PowerPC microprocessor, and is also
the  developer  of  OS/2,  a competing operating system  to  the  Company's
Macintosh  operating system.  Accordingly, IBM's interest in supplying  the
Company  with  improved  versions  of  microprocessors  for  the  Company's
products  may  be  influenced by IBM's perception of  its  interests  as  a
competing  manufacturer of personal computers and as a competing  operating
system vendor.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may also  be
affected by the Company's ability to successfully expand and capitalize  on
its investments in other markets, such as the markets for Internet services
and personal digital assistant (PDA) products.

Global Market Risks

A  large portion of the Company's revenue is derived from its international
operations.   As  a result, the Company's operations and financial  results
could  be significantly affected by international factors, such as  changes
in  foreign  currency  exchange rates or weak economic  conditions  in  the
foreign  markets in which the Company distributes its products.   When  the
U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the U.S. dollar value  of
non-U.S.  dollar-based sales decreases.  When the U.S. dollar weakens,  the
U.S.    dollar   value   of   non-U.S.   dollar-based   sales    increases.
Correspondingly,  the  U.S.  dollar value of  non-U.S.  dollar-based  costs
increases  when the U.S. dollar weakens and decreases when the U.S.  dollar
strengthens.   Overall, the Company is a net receiver of  currencies  other
than  the  U.S. dollar and, as such, benefits from a weaker dollar  and  is
adversely affected by a stronger dollar relative to major currencies

                                       13
<PAGE>

worldwide.   Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and  in  particular  a
strengthening  of  the  U.S. dollar, may negatively  affect  the  Company's
consolidated sales and gross margins (as expressed in U.S. dollars).

To mitigate the short-term impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates on
the   Company's  non-U.S.  dollar-based  sales,  product  procurement,  and
operating  expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non-U.S. dollar-based
exposures.  Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange  forward
and  option  contracts to hedge firmly committed transactions.   Currently,
hedges of firmly committed transactions do not extend beyond one year.  The
Company  also purchases foreign exchange option contracts to hedge  certain
other probable, but not firmly committed transactions.  Hedges of probable,
but  not  firmly committed transactions currently do not extend beyond  one
year.   To  reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange
hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange  option
contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions.  All
foreign  exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for as hedges,
including all transactions intended to reduce the costs associated with the
Company's foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried at fair value  and
are adjusted on each balance sheet date for changes in exchange rates.

While  the Company is exposed with respect to fluctuations in the  interest
rates  of  many  of  the  world's  leading  industrialized  countries,  the
Company's interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations  in
the  general level of U.S. interest rates.  In this regard, changes in U.S.
interest  rates  affect  the interest earned on the  Company's  cash,  cash
equivalents,  and short-term investments as well as interest  paid  on  its
short-term  borrowings  and  long-term debt.  To  mitigate  the  impact  of
fluctuations in U.S. interest rates, the Company has entered into  interest
rate swap and option transactions.  Certain of these swaps are intended  to
better match the Company's floating-rate interest income on its cash,  cash
equivalents,  and  short-term  investments  with  the  fixed-rate  interest
expense on its long-term debt.  The Company also enters into interest  rate
swap  and  option  transactions in order to  diversify  a  portion  of  the
Company's  exposure  away  from fluctuations in  short-term  U.S.  interest
rates.   These instruments may extend the Company's cash investment horizon
up to a maximum effective duration of three years.

To  ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's foreign exchange
and  interest  rate hedge positions, as well as to monitor  the  risks  and
opportunities of the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually  monitors
its  foreign  exchange forward and option positions, and its interest  rate
swap  and  option positions on a stand-alone basis and in conjunction  with
its  underlying  foreign  currency-  and interest  rate-related  exposures,
respectively,  from  both  an  accounting  and  an  economic   perspective.
However,  given  the  effective horizons of the Company's  risk  management
activities, there can be no assurance that the aforementioned programs will
offset  more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting  from
unfavorable  movements in either foreign exchange or  interest  rates.   In
addition, the timing of the accounting for recognition of gains and  losses
related to mark-to-market instruments for any given period may not coincide
with  the  timing  of  gains and losses related to the underlying  economic
exposures,  and  as  such,  may adversely affect  the  Company's  operating
results  and financial position.  The Company generally does not engage  in
leveraged hedging.

Inventory and Supply

In  line  with  the Company's efforts to redesign its business  model,  the
Company  intends  to streamline its product offerings  in  its  key  market
segments in education, business and the home.  However, this simplification
of  product  lines  may result in inventory reserves or  cancellation  fees
related  to  custom  component inventory purchased for anticipated  product
introductions  that may be canceled.  Furthermore, the  Company  may  incur
lower  of  cost  or  market adjustments in order to  sell  through  current
product offerings which may be discontinued in the near term.

The Company's ability to satisfy demand for its products may be limited  by
the  availability  of  key  components.   The  Company  believes  that  the
availability   from  suppliers  to  the  personal  computer   industry   of
microprocessors  and  ASICs  presents the most  significant  potential  for
constraining   the   Company's  ability  to  produce  products.    Specific
microprocessors  manufactured  by Motorola,  Inc.  and  IBM  are  currently
available only from single sources, while some advanced microprocessors are
currently  in  the  early stages of ramp-up for production  and  thus  have
limited  availability.   The Company and other producers  in  the  personal
computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with  other
industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due to
either  increased  consumer demand or increased use  of  semiconductors  in
their  products  (such  as  the cellular phone and automotive  industries).
Finally,  the Company uses some components that are not common to the  rest
of  the  personal  computer industry (including certain ASICs).   Continued
availability  of  these components may be affected  if  producers  were  to
decide  to  concentrate on the production of common components  instead  of
custom  components.   Such  product supply  constraints  and  corresponding
increased  costs  could  adversely affect the  Company's  future  operating
results  and financial condition, including loss of market share.   In  the
past, the Company's operating results and financial condition have been and
may  in the future be adversely affected by the Company's ability to manage
inventory levels and lead times required to obtain components in  order  to
be more responsive to short-term shifts in

                                       14
<PAGE>

customer demand patterns.  In addition, if unit sales growth for current or
future  product  offerings  is  not  realized,  the  Company's  results  of
operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Certain  of the Company's products are manufactured in whole or in part  by
third-party manufacturers, either pursuant to design specifications of  the
Company  or  otherwise.  As a result of the Company's  restructuring  plan,
the  proportion  of  its  products produced  under  such  arrangements  may
increase.   While such arrangements may lower the fixed cost of operations,
it  may  also  reduce  the direct control the Company  currently  has  over
production,  and it is uncertain what the effect such lowered control  will
have on the quality of the products manufactured or the flexibility of  the
Company  to  respond  to  changing market conditions.   Moreover,  although
arrangements  with such manufacturers may contain provisions  for  warranty
expense  reimbursement, the Company remains at least initially  responsible
to  the ultimate consumer for warranty service.  Accordingly, in the  event
of  product defects or warranty liability, the Company may remain at  least
primarily  liable.  Any unanticipated product defect or warrant  liability,
whether  pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise,
could adversely affect the Company's future operating results and financial
condition.

Marketing and Distribution

A  number of uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution of the
Company's products.  Currently, the Company's primary means of distribution
is  through  third-party computer resellers.  The Company also  distributes
product through consumer channels such as mass-merchandise stores, consumer
electronics outlets, and computer superstores.  The Company's business  and
financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition of
these resellers weakens or if resellers within consumer channels decide not
to continue to distribute the Company's products.

Uncertainty over the demand for the Company's products may cause  resellers
to  reduce the ordering and marketing of the Company's products.  Under the
Company's  arrangements with its resellers, resellers have  the  option  to
reduce  or  eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, in most  instances
without  financial  penalty.  Resellers also  have  the  option  to  return
products to the Company without penalty within certain limits, beyond which
they  may be assessed fees.  In the second quarter of 1996, the Company  is
experiencing a reduction in ordering by resellers from historical levesl in 
certain regions due to uncertainty concerning the Company's condition.

Other Factors

The  majority  of  the Company's research and development  activities,  its
corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are  located
near  major  seismic faults. The Company's operating results and  financial
condition  could be materially adversely affected in the event of  a  major
earthquake.

Production  and marketing of products in certain states and  countries  may
subject  the Company to environmental and other regulations which  include,
in  some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with
the ability to return to the Company product at the end of its useful life,
and  leave  responsibility for environmentally safe disposal  or  recycling
with  the  Company.  It is unclear what the effect of such regulation  will
have on the Company's future operating results and financial condition.

The   Company  is  currently  in  the  process  of  replacing  its  current
transaction  systems  (which  include order management,  distribution,  and
finance)  with a single integrated system as part of its ongoing effort  to
increase  operational efficiency.  The Company's future  operating  results
and  financial  condition could be adversely affected if it  is  unable  to
implement  and  effectively manage the transition to  this  new  integrated
system.

Because  of  the foregoing factors, as well as other factors affecting  the
Company's   operating  results  and  financial  condition,  past  financial
performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator  of  future
performance,  and investors should not use historical trends to  anticipate
results   or  trends  in  future  periods.   In  addition,  the   Company's
participation  in  a highly dynamic industry often results  in  significant
volatility of the Company's common stock price.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The  Company's  financial position with respect to cash, cash  equivalents,
and short-term investments, net of short-term borrowings, increased to $602
million at December 29, 1995, from $491 million at September 29, 1995.


                                       15
<PAGE>

Cash  generated by operations during the first three months of 1996 totaled
$187  million.  Cash was generated primarily as a result of higher accounts
payable  levels, reflecting longer payment terms obtained from  vendors  as
well  as  growth  in  inventory levels.  Cash generated by  operations  was
partially  offset by cash used for the purchase of inventory.  Despite  the
higher sales level achieved during the first quarter of 1996 compared  with
the  same  period  of 1995, less cash was generated by operations  in  1996
primarily  because  of  the  growth in inventory  and  the  operating  loss
incurred primarily due to competitive pricing actions.

Net  cash  used for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment  totaled
$31 million in the first three months of 1996, and was primarily made up of
increases  in  manufacturing machinery and equipment  and  buildings.   The
Company anticipates that capital expenditures in 1996 will decline relative
to 1995 expenditure levels.

Short-term borrowings at December 29, 1995, were approximately $37  million
higher than at September 29, 1995.  These borrowings were primarily made to
fund   expected  working  capital  growth  in  certain  markets  worldwide.
Domestically,  $88  million of U.S. commercial paper  was  issued  and  $10
million  of short-term borrowings were incurred from U.S. banks during  the
first  quarter  of 1996.  Outside the United States, short-term  borrowings
decreased  by  $61  million.   Apple Japan,  Inc.  and  Apple  Computer  BV
(Netherlands), subsidiaries of the Company, held short-term borrowings from
several  banks,  totaling  approximately $197  million  and  $203  million,
respectively, at December 29, 1995.  These loans mature in March  1996  and
April  1996,  respectively.  In the second quarter  of  1996,  the  Company
largely discontinued its issuance of commercial paper.

The Company's balance of long-term debt remained relatively constant during
the  first  quarter of 1996.  Substantially the entire amount of  long-term
borrowings  represents  $300 million aggregate  principal  amount  of  6.5%
unsecured notes issued under an omnibus shelf registration statement  filed
with   the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  in  1994.   This   shelf
registration was for the registration of debt and other securities  for  an
aggregate offering amount of $500 million.  The notes were sold at  99.925%
of  par,  for  an  effective yield to maturity of  6.51%.   The  notes  pay
interest semi-annually and mature on February 15, 2004.

The Company expects that it will borrow in the near to intermediate term to
finance  its  working capital needs and capital expenditures,  particularly
because it is unlikely that the Company will continue to generate cash from
operations in this time frame.

The  Internal  Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies
for  the  years  1984  through  1991, and  the  Company  has  made  certain
prepayments  thereon.  The Company contested the proposed deficiencies  for
the  years  1984 through 1988, and most of the issues in dispute for  these
years  have  been resolved.  On June 29, 1995, the IRS issued a  notice  of
deficiency  proposing  increases to the amount  of  the  Company's  federal
income  taxes  for the years 1989 through 1991.  The Company  has  filed  a
petition  with  the  United States Tax Court to contest these  alleged  tax
deficiencies.   Management believes that adequate provision has  been  made
for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations.

As noted on page 10 under the subheading "Interest and other income(expense), 
net, the Company expects that its cost of funds will increase in 1996.   In 
addition, the Company may be required to pledge collateral  with respect  to
certain  of  its borrowings and to  agree  to  more  stringent covenants than
in the past.  The Company is seeking alternative sources  of liquidity  and 
is discussing financing alternatives with several  financial institutions.   
Although the Company believes it will be  able  to  arrange short-  and  
intermediate-term financing that  will  cover  its  needs,  it currently  
does not have commitments from lenders to provide such  funding.  The Company 
believes that its balances of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term  
investments, together with short- and long-term borrowings  that  the Company
believes it will be able to obtain, will be sufficient to meet  its short-  
and long-term operating cash requirements, including the impact  of planned
restructuring actions, on a short- and long-term basis.














                                       16
<PAGE>

       PART II. OTHER INFORMATION

Item 1. Legal Proceedings

Management  is  not aware of any pending legal  proceedings  to  which  the
Company is a party that are likely to have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition and results of operations as reported in  the
accompanying  financial statements.  In January 1996, two  purported  class
action  complaints naming the Company and its directors as defendants  were
filed  in Superior Court in the state of California, styled as Abraham  and
Evelyn  Kostick  Trust v. Peter O. Crisp, et al., and Manson  v.  Peter  O.
Crisp,  et  al.   These complaints seek injunctive relief  and  unspecified
compensatory damages based on substantially identical allegations  of  acts
of  mismanagement  resulting in a depressed price  for  the  Company.   The
Company  has  reviewed the allegations of the complaints and believes  they
are without merit, and intends to defend itself vigorously.


Item 6.  Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

a) Exhibits

       Exhibit
        Number        Description

           10.A.5        1990 Stock Option Plan, revised December 1995.

           10.A.6        Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
                         as amended December 6, 1995.

           10.A.7        1996 Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan.

           10.A.19       Executive Severance Plan as amended and  restated
                         effective as of January 15, 1996.

           10.A.23       Separation  Agreement  dated  December  1,  1995,
                         between Registrant and Daniel Eilers.

           10.A.24       Separation  Agreement  dated  October  31,  1995,
                         between Registrant and Joseph A. Graziano.

           10.A.25       Summary of Principal Terms of Employment  between
                         Registrant and Gilbert F. Amelio.

            11           Computation of per share earnings

            27           Financial Data Schedule

b) Reports on Form 8-K

   None.















                                       17
<PAGE>

   

                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                    SIGNATURE
                                        
Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934,  the
Registrant  has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf  by  the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                               APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                  (Registrant)








DATE:   February 12, 1996      BY /s/ Jeanne Seeley

                                 Jeanne Seeley
                                 Vice President, Finance and
                                 Corporate Controller
                                 (Chief Accounting Officer)












                                       18

<PAGE>


                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                        
                                                              
  Exhibit    Description                                 Page Number
   Index
                                                      
                                        
10.A.5       1990   Stock  Option  Plan,   revised           20     
             December 1995.

10.A.6       Apple  Computer, Inc. Employee  Stock           33     
             Purchase Plan, as amended December 6,
             1995.
                                        
10.A.7       1996 Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus           41
             Plan.
                                                              
10.A.19      Executive  Severance Plan as  amended           52
             and  restated effective as of January
             15, 1996.
                                                                   
10.A.23      Separation  Agreement dated  December           107     
             1,   1995,  between  Registrant   and
             Daniel Eilers.
                                        
10.A.24      Separation  Agreement  dated  October           121     
             31,   1995,  between  Registrant  and
             Joseph A. Graziano.
                                        
10.A.25      Summary   of   Principal   Terms   of           130     
             Employment  between  Registrant   and
             Gilbert F. Amelio.
                                        
11           Computation of per share earnings               135
                                                              
27           Financial Data Schedule                         136
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       19
<PAGE>




     


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 10.A.5
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                             1990 STOCK OPTION PLAN

     1.    Purposes  of the Plan.  The purposes of this 1990  Stock  Option
Plan  are  to  attract and retain high quality personnel for  positions  of
substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to Employees of
the  Company, its Subsidiaries and its Affiliated Companies and to  promote
the  success of the Company's business.  This Plan succeeds to and replaces
the  Company's 1981 Stock Option Plan.  Options granted under the Plan  may
be  incentive stock options (as defined under Section 422 of the  Code)  or
non-statutory stock options, as determined by the Administrator at the time
of  grant of an option and subject to the applicable provisions of  Section
422  of  the  Code,  and  the  regulations promulgated  thereunder.   Stock
appreciation  rights ("SARs") may be granted under the Plan  in  connection
with Options or independently of Options.

     2.    Definitions.   As used herein, the following  definitions  shall
apply:

      (a)   "Administrator" means the Board or any of  its  Committees,  as
shall be administering the Plan from time to time pursuant to Section 4  of
the Plan.

      (b)   "Affiliated  Company"  means  a  corporation  which  is  not  a
Subsidiary  but  with  respect  to which  the  Company  owns,  directly  or
indirectly  through one or more Subsidiaries, at least  20%  of  the  total
voting  power,  unless the Administrator determines in its discretion  that
such corporation is not an Affiliated Company.

      (c)   "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

      (d)   "Common  Stock" means the Common Stock, no par  value,  of  the
Company.

      (e)   "Company" means Apple Computer, Inc., a California corporation,
or its successor.

      (f)  "Committee" means a Committee, if any, appointed by the Board in
accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan.

      (g)   "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time, and any successor thereto.

                                       20
<PAGE>

      (h)   "Continuous  Status as an Employee" means the  absence  of  any
interruption or termination of the employment relationship with the Company
or  any Subsidiary or Affiliated Company.  Continuous Status as an Employee
shall  not  be  considered interrupted in the case of:  (i) medical  leave,
provided that such leave is for a period of not more than four months; (ii)
military  leave;  (iii) family leave, provided that such  leave  is  for  a
period  of  not  more than four months; (iv)  any other  leave  of  absence
approved by the Administrator, provided that such leave is for a period  of
not  more than four months, unless reemployment upon the expiration of such
leave  is  guaranteed by contract or statute, or unless provided  otherwise
pursuant  to  formal policy adopted from time to time by  the  Company  and
issued  and  promulgated to Employees in writing; or (v)  in  the  case  of
transfers  between  locations of the Company or between  the  Company,  its
Subsidiaries,its successor or its Affiliated Companies.

     (i)  "Director" means a member of the Board.

     (j)   "Employee" means any person, including Officers and  Directors,
employed  by  and  on  the payroll of the Company, any  Subsidiary  or  any
Affiliated  Company.  The payment of Directors' fees by the  Company  shall
not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.

     (k)   "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act  of  1934,  as
amended.

     (l)  "Fair Market Value" means the value of Common Stock determined as
follows:

           (i)   If  the  Common Stock is listed on any  established  stock
     exchange or a national market system (including without limitation the
     National  Market  System  of  the National Association  of  Securities
     Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation ("NASDAQ") System), its Fair  Market
     Value  shall be the closing sales price for such stock or the  closing
     bid  if  no sales were reported, as quoted on such system or  exchange
     (or  the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock)
     for the last market trading day prior to the time of determination, as
     reported  in  the  Wall Street Journal or such  other  source  as  the
     Administrator deems reliable.

          (ii) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted on the NASDAQ System
     (but  not  on  the National Market System) or quoted by  a  recognized
     securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, its Fair Market
     Value shall be the mean between the high and low asked prices for  the
     Common  Stock for the last day on which there are quoted prices  prior
     to the time of determination.

           (iii)     In the absence of an established market for the Common
     Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith
     by the Administrator.

     (m)  "Officer" means an officer of the Company within the meaning  of
Section  16  of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations  promulgated
thereunder.

     (n)   "Nonstatutory  Stock Option" means an Option  that  is  not  an
Incentive Stock Option.
                                       21
<PAGE>

     (o)   "Incentive  Stock Option" means an Option  that  satisfies  the
provisions  of Section 422 of the Code and is expressly designated  by  the
Administrator at the time of grant as an incentive stock option.

     (p)  "Option" means an Option granted pursuant to the Plan.

     (q)  "Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to an Option  or
SAR.

     (r)  "Optionee" means an Employee who receives an Option or SAR.

     (s)   "Parent" corporation shall have the meaning defined in  Section
424(e) of the Code.

     (t)  "Plan" means this 1990 Stock Option Plan.

     (u)   "SAR"  means  a  stock appreciation right granted  pursuant  to
Section 9 below.

     (v)   "Share"  means  a  share of the Common Stock,  as  adjusted  in
accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.

     (w)   "Subsidiary"  corporation has the meaning  defined  in  Section
424(f) of the Code.

      In  addition, the terms "Rule 16b-3" and "Applicable Laws", the  term
"Insiders",  the  term  "Tax Date" and the terms "Change  in  Control"  and
"Change in Control Price", shall have the meanings set forth, respectively,
in Sections 4, 9, 10 and 12 below.

      3.   Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of Section
12  of  the  Plan,  the  maximum aggregate number of Shares  which  may  be
optioned  and  sold  under the Plan or for which SARs may  be  granted  and
exercised  is  51,200,000 Shares (including Shares issued  under  the  1981
Stock Option Plan, to which this Plan is a successor).

     The Shares may be authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock.

      In  the  discretion of the Administrator, any or all  of  the  Shares
authorized  under the Plan may be subject to SARs issued  pursuant  to  the
Plan.
                                       22
<PAGE>

     If an Option or SAR issued under this Plan or under the Company's 1981
Stock  Option  Plan should expire or become unexercisable  for  any  reason
without  having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares  which  were
subject thereto shall, unless this Plan shall have been terminated,  become
available  for other Options or SARs under this Plan.  However, should  the
Company reacquire Shares which were issued pursuant to the exercise  of  an
Option  or  SAR,  such Shares shall not become available for  future  grant
under the Plan.

     4.   Administration of the Plan.

          (a)  Composition of Administrator.

                     (1)  Multiple Administrative Bodies.  If permitted  by
Rule  16b-3  promulgated  under the Exchange  Act  or  any  successor  rule
thereto,  as in effect at the time that discretion is being exercised  with
respect  to the Plan ("Rule 16b-3"), and by the legal requirements relating
to  the  administration  of  stock plans such  as  the  Plan,  if  any,  of
applicable  securities  laws,  California  corporate  law  and   the   Code
(collectively,  "Applicable  Laws"),  the  Plan  may  (but  need  not)   be
administered  by  different  administrative  bodies  with  respect  to  (A)
Directors  who  are  not Employees, (B) Directors who  are  Employees,  (C)
Officers  who are not Directors and (D) Employees who are neither Directors
nor Officers.

                     (2)   Administration  with respect  to  Directors  and
Officers.   With  respect to grants and awards to Employees  who  are  also
Officers or Directors of the Company, the Plan may be administered  by  (A)
the Board, if the Board may administer the Plan in compliance with Rule 16b-
3 as it applies to a plan intended to qualify thereunder as a discretionary
grant  or  award  plan,  or  (B) a Committee designated  by  the  Board  to
administer  the Plan, which Committee shall be constituted (I)  in  such  a
manner  as  to permit the Plan and grants and awards thereunder  to  comply
with Rule 16b-3 as it applies to a plan intended to qualify thereunder as a
discretionary grant or award plan and (II) in such a manner as  to  satisfy
the Applicable Laws.

                     (3)   Administration with respect  to  Other  Persons.
With  respect  to grants and awards to Employees who are neither  Directors
nor  Officers of the Company, the Plan may be administered by (A) the Board
or  (B)  a  Committee  designated by the Board, which  Committee  shall  be
constituted in such a manner as to satisfy the Applicable Laws.

                     (4)   General.   Once a Committee has  been  appointed
pursuant  to  subsection (2) or (3) of this Section  4(a),  such  Committee
shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed
by  the  Board.  From time to time the Board may increase the size  of  any
Committee and appoint additional members thereof, remove members  (with  or
without  cause)  and  appoint  new members in substitution  therefor,  fill
vacancies  (however  caused)  and remove all members  of  a  Committee  and
thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by the
Applicable  Laws and, in the case of a Committee appointed under subsection
(2)  to the extent permitted by Rule 16b-3 as it applies to a plan intended
to qualify thereunder as a discretionary grant or award plan.

                                       23
<PAGE>

           (b)  Powers of the Administrator.  Subject to the provisions  of
the  Plan  and, in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific  duties
delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have  the
authority, in its discretion: (i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the
Common  Stock  in  accordance  with Section  2(l)  of  the  Plan;  (ii)  to
determine, in accordance with Section 8(a) of the Plan, the exercise  price
per  Share  of  Options  and SARs to be granted;  (iii)  to  determine  the
Employees  to whom, and the time or times at which, Options and SARs  shall
be granted and the number of Shares to be represented by each Option or SAR
(including  without  limitation  whether or  not  a  corporation  shall  be
excluded  from  the definition of Affiliated Company under  Section  2(b));
(iv) to interpret the Plan; (v) to determine the terms and conditions,  not
inconsistent  with  the  terms of the Plan, of any Option  or  SAR  granted
hereunder (including, but not limited to, any restriction or limitation, or
any vesting acceleration or waiver of forfeiture restrictions regarding any
Option  or  SAR and/or the Shares relating thereto, based in each  case  on
such factors as the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion);
(vi)  to  approve  forms  of agreement for use under  the  Plan;  (vii)  to
prescribe,  amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to  the  Plan;
(viii)  to  modify  or amend each Option or SAR (with the  consent  of  the
Optionee)  or  accelerate the exercise date of any Option or SAR;  (ix)  to
reduce  the  exercise price of any Option or SAR to the then  current  Fair
Market  Value if the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock covered by  such
Option  or  SAR shall have declined since the date the Option  or  SAR  was
granted;  (x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of  the  Company
any  instrument  required  to effectuate the grant  of  an  Option  or  SAR
previously  granted  by  the Administrator; and  (xi)  to  make  all  other
determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of  the
Plan.

           (c)   Effect of Decisions by the Administrator.  All  decisions,
determinations and interpretations of the Administrator shall be final  and
binding on all Optionees and any other holders of any Options.

      5.   Eligibility.  Options and SARs may be granted only to Employees.
An  Employee  who has been granted an Option or SAR may, if he  or  she  is
otherwise  eligible, be granted an additional Option  or  Options,  SAR  or
SARs.  Each Option shall be evidenced by a written Option agreement,  which
shall  expressly  identify the Options as Incentive  Stock  Options  or  as
Nonstatutory  Stock Options, and which shall be in such  form  and  contain
such  provisions  as  the  Administrator  shall  from  time  to  time  deem
appropriate.  However, notwithstanding such designation, to the extent that
the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Shares with respect to which Options
designated as Incentive Stock Options and options granted under other plans
of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary that are designated as incentive
stock options are exercisable for the first time by an Optionee during  any
calendar  year  exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be  treated  as
Nonstatutory  Stock Options.  For purposes of the preceding  sentence,  (i)
Options  shall  be  taken  into account in the order  in  which  they  were
granted,  and (ii) the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be  determined
as  of the time the Option or other incentive stock option with respect  to
such  Shares is granted.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Administrator
may,  at  any time, or from time to time, authorize the Company,  with  the
consent  of  the respective recipients, to issue new Options or Options  in
exchange  for  the  surrender and cancellation of any  or  all  outstanding
Options, other options, SARs or other stock appreciation rights.

                                       24
<PAGE>

     Neither the Plan nor any Option or SAR agreement shall confer upon any
Optionee  any  right  with respect to continuation  of  employment  by  the
Company  (or  any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliated Company), nor  shall  it
interfere in any way with the Optionee's right or the right of the  Company
(or  any  Parent,  Subsidiary  or  Affiliated  Company)  to  terminate  the
Optionee's employment at any time or for any reason.

      6.   Term of Plan.  The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption
by  the  Board or its approval by vote of the holders of a majority of  the
outstanding Shares of the Company entitled to vote on the adoption  of  the
Plan, whichever is earlier.  It shall continue in effect for a term of  ten
(10) years unless sooner terminated under Section 14 of the Plan.

      7.   Term of Option.  The term of each Option shall be ten (10) years
from  the date of grant thereof or such shorter term as may be provided  in
the  Option  agreement.  However, in the case of an Incentive Stock  Option
granted  to  an  Optionee who, at the time the Incentive  Stock  Option  is
granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the  voting
power  of  all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary,
the  term  of  the Option shall be five (5) years from the  date  of  grant
thereof or such shorter time as may be provided in the Option agreement.

     8.   Exercise Price and Consideration.

          (a)  Exercise Price.  The per Share exercise price for the Shares
issuable pursuant to an Option shall be such price as is determined by  the
Administrator, but shall in no event be less than 100% of the  Fair  Market
Value  of  Common Stock, determined as of the date of grant of the  Option.
In  the  event that the Administrator shall reduce the exercise price,  the
exercise  price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value  as  of
the date of that reduction.  In no event shall the per Share exercise price
be  less  than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share as of  the  date  of
grant in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to an Optionee  who,
immediately before the grant of such Option, owns Shares representing  more
than  10%  of  the  voting power or value of all classes of  stock  of  the
Company or any Parent or Subsidiary.

           (b)   Method of Payment.  The consideration to be paid  for  the
Shares  to  be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the  method  of
payment, shall be determined by the Administrator (and, in the case  of  an
Incentive Stock Option, shall be determined at the time of grant)  and  may
consist  of (i) cash, (ii) check, (iii) promissory note, (iv) other  Shares
which  (x) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option,  have
been  owned  by the Optionee for more than six (6) months on  the  date  of
surrender, and (y) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender  equal
to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall
be  exercised, (v) delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together
with  irrevocable  instructions to a broker  to  promptly  deliver  to  the
Company  the  amount of sale or loan proceeds required to pay the  exercise
price,  (vi) if the Optionee is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange  Act,
by  delivering an irrevocable subscription agreement for the  Shares  which
irrevocably obligates the Optionee to take and pay for the Shares not  more
than  twelve  (12)  months after the date of delivery of  the  subscription
agreement,  or  (vii) any combination of the foregoing methods  of  payment
and/or  any other consideration or method of payment as shall be  permitted
under applicable corporate law.
                                       25
<PAGE>

     9.   Stock Appreciation Rights.

           (a)  Granted in Connection with Options.  At the sole discretion
of  the  Administrator, SARs may be granted in connection with all  or  any
part  of an Option, either concurrently with the grant of the Option or  at
any  time  thereafter  during  the  term  of  the  Option.   The  following
provisions apply to SARs that are granted in connection with Options:

                (i)  The SAR shall entitle the Optionee to exercise the SAR
by surrendering to the Company unexercised a portion of the related Option.
The Optionee shall receive in exchange from the Company an amount equal  to
the  excess of (x) the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the SAR
of  the  Common  Stock covered by the surrendered portion  of  the  related
Option  over  (y)  the exercise price of the Common Stock  covered  by  the
surrendered portion of the related Option.  Notwithstanding the  foregoing,
the  Administrator may place limits on the amount that  may  be  paid  upon
exercise  of an SAR; provided, however, that such limit shall not  restrict
the exercisability of the related Option.

                (ii)  When an SAR is exercised, the related Option, to  the
     extent surrendered, shall no longer be exercisable.

                (iii)     An SAR shall be exercisable only when and to  the
     extent  that  the  related Option is exercisable and shall  expire  no
     later than the date on which the related Option expires.

                (iv)  An SAR may only be exercised at a time when the  Fair
Market Value of the Common Stock covered by the related Option exceeds  the
exercise price of the Common Stock covered by the related Option.

            (b)    Independent  SARs.   At  the  sole  discretion  of   the
Administrator, SARs may be granted without related Options.  The  following
provisions apply to SARs that are not granted in connection with Options:

                (i)  The SAR shall entitle the Optionee, by exercising  the
     SAR, to receive from the Company an amount equal to the excess of  (x)
     the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock covered by exercised portion
     of  the SAR, as of the date of such exercise, over (y) the Fair Market
     Value of the Common Stock covered by the exercised portion of the SAR,
     as  of the date on which the SAR was granted; provided, however,  that
     the Administrator may place limits on the amount that may be paid upon
     exercise of an SAR.

               (ii) SARs shall be exercisable, in whole or in part, at such
     times  as  the  Administrator  shall specify  in  the  Optionee's  SAR
     agreement.

           (c)  Form of Payment.  The Company's obligation arising upon the
exercise  of  an  SAR may be paid in Common Stock or in  cash,  or  in  any
combination  of Common Stock and cash, as the Administrator,  in  its  sole
discretion, may determine.  Shares issued upon the exercise of an SAR shall
be valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise.

                                       26
<PAGE>

           (d)   Rule  16b-3.  SARs granted to persons who are  subject  to
Section  16  of the Exchange Act ("Insiders") shall contain such additional
restrictions  as  may  be  required to be contained  in  the  plan  or  SAR
agreement  in  order  for  the SAR to qualify  for  the  maximum  exemption
provided by Rule 16b-3.

     10.  Method of Exercise.

          (a)  Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder.  Any Option
or  SAR granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such
conditions  as determined by the Administrator and as shall be  permissible
under the terms of the Plan.

           An  Option  or SAR shall be deemed to be exercised when  written
notice  of  such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance  with
the  terms  of  the Option or SAR by the person entitled  to  exercise  the
Option  or  SAR and full payment for the Shares with respect to  which  the
Option is exercised has been received by the Company.  Full payment may, as
authorized  by  the Administrator (and, in the case of an  Incentive  Stock
Option,  determined  at  the time of grant) and  permitted  by  the  Option
agreement,  consist  of any consideration and method of  payment  allowable
under  Section 8(b) of the Plan.  Until the issuance (as evidenced  by  the
appropriate  entry  on  the books of the Company or of  a  duly  authorized
transfer  agent  of the Company) of the stock certificate  evidencing  such
Shares,  no  right to vote or receive dividends or any other  rights  as  a
shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding
the  exercise of the Option.  No adjustment will be made for a dividend  or
other  right  for  which the record date is prior to  the  date  the  stock
certificate  is issued, except as provided in Section 12 of the  Plan.   An
Option or SAR may not be exercised with respect to a fraction of a Share.

          Exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in
the number of Shares which thereafter shall be available, both for purposes
of  the Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares  as  to
which the Option is exercised.  Exercise of an SAR in any manner shall,  to
the  extent  the SAR is exercised, result in a decrease in  the  number  of
Shares  which thereafter shall be available for purposes of the  Plan,  and
the SAR shall cease to be exercisable to the extent it has been exercised.

           (b)   Rule  16b-3.   Options and SARs granted to  Insiders  must
comply  with  Rule  16b-3 and shall contain such additional  conditions  or
restrictions as may be required thereunder to be contained in the  Plan  or
the  agreement to qualify for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of  the
Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.

           (c)  Termination of Continuous Employment.  Upon termination  of
an  Optionee's  Continuous Status as Employee (other  than  termination  by
reason  of the Optionee's death), the Optionee may, but only within  ninety
(90) days after the date of such termination, exercise his or her Option or
SAR  to the extent that it was exercisable at the date of such termination.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing, however, an  Option  or  SAR  may  not  be
exercised  after the date the Option or SAR would otherwise expire  by  its
terms due to the passage of time from the date of grant.

                                       27
<PAGE>

           (d)   Death  of  Optionee.  In the event  of  the  death  of  an
Optionee:

                (1)   Who is at the time of death an Employee and who shall
     have  been in Continuous Status as an Employee since the date of grant
     of  the  Option, the Option or SAR may be exercised at any time within
     six (6) months (or such other period of time not exceeding twelve (12)
     months as determined by the Administrator) following the date of death
     by  the  Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired  the  right  to
     exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the  extent
     of  the  right  to exercise that would have accrued had  the  Optionee
     continued  living and terminated his or her employment six (6)  months
     (or  such  other  period of time not exceeding twelve (12)  months  as
     determined by the Administrator) after the date of death; or

                (2)   Within  ninety  (90) days after  the  termination  of
     Continuous  Status as an Employee, the Option or SAR may be exercised,
     at  any  time within six (6) months (or such other period of time  not
     exceeding  twelve  (12)  months as determined  by  the  Administrator)
     following  the date of death by the Optionee's estate or by  a  person
     who  acquired  the  right  to  exercise  the  Option  by  bequest   or
     inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that  had
     accrued at the date of termination.

           Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, an Option or SAR may not
be exercised after the date the Option or SAR would otherwise expire by its
terms due to the passage of time from the date of grant.

           (e)   Stock  Withholding to Satisfy Withholding Tax Obligations.
When an Optionee incurs tax liability in connection with the exercise of an
Option  or  SAR,  which tax liability is subject to tax  withholding  under
applicable  tax laws, and the Optionee is obligated to pay the  Company  an
amount required to be withheld under applicable tax laws, the Optionee  may
satisfy the withholding tax obligation (including, at the election  of  the
Optionee, any additional amount which the Optionee desires to have withheld
in  order to satisfy in whole or in part the Optionee's full estimated  tax
in  connection with the exercise) by electing to have the Company  withhold
from the Shares to be issued upon exercise of the Option, or the Shares  to
be issued upon exercise of the SAR, if any, that number of Shares having  a
Fair  Market  Value  equal to the amount required to be withheld  (and  any
additional  amount desired to be withheld, as aforesaid).  The Fair  Market
Value of the Shares to be withheld shall be determined on the date that the
amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined (the "Tax Date").

           All  elections by an Optionee to have Shares withheld  for  this
purpose  shall be made in writing in a form acceptable to the Administrator
and shall be subject to the following restrictions:

               (i)  the election must be made on or prior to the applicable
Tax Date;
               (ii) once made, the election shall be irrevocable as to the
particular  Shares of the Option or SAR as to which the  election  is  made
unless revocation of the election is permitted by Rule 16b-3 and the  Code;
and
                                       28
<PAGE>

               (iii)     all elections shall be subject to the consent  or
disapproval of the Administrator.

           In the event the election to have Shares withheld is made by  an
Optionee and the Tax Date is deferred under Section 83 of the Code  because
no  election  is filed under Section 83(b) of the Code, the Optionee  shall
receive the full number of Shares with respect to which the Option  or  SAR
is exercised but such Optionee shall be unconditionally obligated to tender
back to the Company the proper number of Shares on the Tax Date.

      11.   Non-Transferability of Options.  Options and SARs  may  not  be
sold,  pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred or disposed of  in  any
manner  other  than  by will or by the laws of descent or  distribution  or
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code  or
Title  I  of  the  Employee Retirement Income Security Act,  or  the  rules
thereunder.  The designation of a beneficiary by an Optionee or  holder  of
an  SAR  does  not  constitute a transfer.  An Option  or  an  SAR  may  be
exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee or SAR holder, only  by  the
Optionee or SAR holder or by a transferee permitted by this Section 11.

     12.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger.

           (a)   Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required action
by  the  shareholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by  each
outstanding  Option  and  SAR, and the number of  Shares  which  have  been
authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Options  or  SARs
have  yet  been  granted  or  which have been returned  to  the  Plan  upon
cancellation  or expiration of an Option or SAR, as well as the  price  per
Share   covered  by  each  such  outstanding  Option  or  SAR,   shall   be
proportionately  adjusted for any increase or decrease  in  the  number  of
issued  Shares  resulting from a stock split, reverse  stock  split,  stock
dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other
increase  or  decrease  in the aggregate number of issued  Shares  effected
without  receipt of consideration by the Company; provided,  however,  that
conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed
to  have been "effected without receipt of consideration."  Such adjustment
shall  be  made by the Administrator, whose determination in  that  respect
shall  be  final,  binding and conclusive.  Except  as  expressly  provided
herein,  no  issuance by the Company of shares of stock of  any  class,  or
securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and
no  adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the  number
or price of Shares subject to an Option or SAR.

           (b)   Dissolution or Liquidation.  In the event of the  proposed
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, all outstanding Options and SARs
will  terminate  immediately  prior to the consummation  of  such  proposed
action,  unless otherwise provided by the Administrator.  The Administrator
may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that
any  Option  or SAR shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Administrator
and give each Optionee the right to exercise his or her Option or SAR as to
all  or any part of the Optioned Stock or SAR, including Shares as to which
the Option or SAR would not otherwise be exercisable.

                                       29
<PAGE>

           (c)   Sale  of  Assets or Merger. Subject to the  provisions  of
paragraph  (d)  hereof,  in  the  event  of  a  proposed  sale  of  all  or
substantially  all  of  the assets of the Company, or  the  merger  of  the
Company  with or into another corporation, each outstanding Option and  SAR
shall  be assumed or an equivalent option or stock appreciation right shall
be  substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary  of
such  successor  corporation, unless the Administrator determines,  in  the
exercise  of  its  sole  discretion and  in  lieu  of  such  assumption  or
substitution, that the Optionee shall have the right to exercise the Option
or  SAR  as to all of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to which  the
Option  or  SAR  would not otherwise be exercisable.  If the  Administrator
makes  an  Option  or  SAR  fully exercisable  in  lieu  of  assumption  or
substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Company  shall
notify the Optionee that the Option or SAR shall be fully exercisable for a
period of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, and the Option  or
SAR  will  terminate upon the expiration of such period.  For  purposes  of
this  paragraph,  an Option granted under the Plan shall be  deemed  to  be
assumed if, following the sale of assets or merger, the Option confers  the
right  to purchase, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the  Option
immediately  prior  to  the  sale of assets or  merger,  the  consideration
(whether stock, cash or other securities or property) received in the  sale
of  assets or merger by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on  the
effective  date  of  the transaction (and if such holders  were  offered  a
choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of
a  majority  of the outstanding Shares); provided, however,  that  if  such
consideration  received  in the sale of assets or  merger  was  not  solely
Common  Stock of the successor corporation or its parent, the Administrator
may,  with  the  consent of the successor corporation and the  participant,
provide for the per share consideration to be received upon exercise of the
Option to be solely Common Stock of the successor corporation or its parent
equal  in  Fair  Market  Value to the per share consideration  received  by
holders of Common Stock in the sale of assets or merger.

          (d)  Change in Control.  In the event of a "Change in Control" of
the Company, as defined in paragraph (e) below, unless otherwise determined
by the Administrator prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control, the
following acceleration and valuation provisions shall apply:

                (1)   Any Options and SARs outstanding as of the date  such
     Change  in  Control is determined to have occurred that  are  not  yet
     exercisable and vested on such date shall become fully exercisable and
     vested; and

                (2)   The value of all outstanding Options and SARs  shall,
     unless otherwise determined by the Administrator at or after grant, be
     cashed-out.  The amount at which such Options and SARs shall be cashed
     out  shall  be equal to the excess of (x) the Change in Control  Price
     (as  defined  below) over (y) the exercise price of the  Common  Stock
     covered by the Option or SAR.  The cash-out proceeds shall be paid  to
     the  Optionee  or,  in  the event of death of  an  Optionee  prior  to
     payment, to the estate of the Optionee or to a person who acquired the
     right to exercise the Option or SAR by bequest or inheritance.

                                       30
<PAGE>

           (e)   Definition of "Change in Control".  For purposes  of  this
Section  12,  a  "Change  in Control" means the happening  of  any  of  the
following:

                (i)  When  any "person", as such term  is  used  in
     Sections  13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company,
     a Subsidiary or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee
     of  such plan acting as trustee) is or becomes the "beneficial  owner"
     (as  defined  in  Rule  13d-3  under the Exchange  Act),  directly  or
     indirectly,  of securities of the Company representing  fifty  percent
     (50%)  or  more  of  the combined voting power of the  Company's  then
     outstanding securities; or

                (ii)  The occurrence of a transaction requiring shareholder
     approval,  and involving the sale of all or substantially all  of  the
     assets  of  the  Company or the merger of the  Company  with  or  into
     another corporation.

           (f)  Change in Control Price.  For purposes of this Section  12,
"Change in Control Price" shall be, as determined by the Administrator, (i)
the  highest  Fair  Market  Value  at any time  within  the  60-day  period
immediately  preceding the date of determination of the Change  in  Control
Price by the Administrator (the "60-Day Period"), or (ii) the highest price
paid  or  offered,  as determined by the Administrator, in  any  bona  fide
transaction  or  bona fide offer related to the Change in  Control  of  the
Company, at any time within the 60-Day Period.

      13.   Time  of Granting Options and SARs.  The date of  grant  of  an
Option  or  SAR  shall,  for  all  purposes,  be  the  date  on  which  the
Administrator makes the determination granting such Option or SAR.   Notice
of  the determination shall be given to each Employee to whom an Option  or
SAR is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.

     14.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.

          (a)  Amendment and Termination.  The Board may at any time amend,
alter,  suspend  or terminate the Plan, as it may deem advisable;  provided
that,  to  the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule 16b-3  or
with  Section  422 of the Code (or any other Applicable Law),  the  Company
shall  obtain shareholder approval of any Plan amendment in such  a  manner
and to such a degree as is required.

           (b)   Effect  of Amendment or Termination.  Any such  amendment,
alteration,  suspension or termination of the Plan  shall  not  impair  the
rights  of  any  Optionee  or SAR holder under any grant  theretofore  made
without  his  or her consent.  Such Options and SARs shall remain  in  full
force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated.

      15.   Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not be issued
with respect to an Option or SAR unless the exercise of such Option or  SAR
and  the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply
with  all  relevant provisions of law, including, without  limitation,  the
Securities  Act  of  1933,  as amended, the Exchange  Act,  the  rules  and
regulations  promulgated  thereunder, and the  requirements  of  any  stock
exchange  or quotation system upon which the Shares may then be  listed  or
quoted,  and  shall be further subject to the approval of counsel  for  the
Company with respect to such compliance.

                                       31
<PAGE>

           As  a  condition  to the exercise of an Option  or  SAR  or  the
issuance  of  Shares  upon exercise of an Option or SAR,  the  Company  may
require  the person exercising such Option or SAR to represent and  warrant
at  the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased  only
for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such
Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation
is required by any of the aforementioned relevant provisions of law.

           Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory
body  having  jurisdiction,  which authority is  deemed  by  the  Company's
counsel  to  be  necessary to the lawful issuance and sale  of  any  Shares
hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the non-
issuance or sale of such Shares as to which such requisite authority  shall
not have been obtained.

      16.   Reservation of Shares.  The Company, during the  term  of  this
Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as
shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

					32
<PAGE>
                                        

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 10.A.6
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                          EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
                      (as amended through December 6, 1995)
                                        

     The following constitute the provisions of the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (herein called the "Plan") of Apple Computer, Inc. (herein called  the
"Company").

      1.   Purpose.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the
Company  and its subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase Common  Stock
of  the  Company  through payroll deductions.  It is the intention  of  the
Company to have the Plan qualify as an "Employee Stock Purchase Plan" under
Section  423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  The provisions  of  the
Plan   shall,  accordingly,  be  construed  so  as  to  extend  and   limit
participation in a manner consistent with the requirements of that  section
of the Code.

     2.   Definitions.

            (a)  "Board"  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

            (b)   "Common Stock"  shall mean the Common Stock, no par value,
of the Company.

            (c)   "Company"  shall mean Apple Computer, Inc.,  a  California
corporation.

            (d)   "Compensation"  shall  mean  all  regular  straight  time
earnings,  payments  for  overtime, shift premium, incentive  compensation,
incentive payments, bonuses and commissions (except to the extent that  the
exclusion  of any such items is specifically directed by the Board  or  its
committee).

           (e)  "Designated Subsidiaries" shall mean the Subsidiaries which
have  been designated by the Board from time to time in its sole discretion
as eligible to participate in the Plan.

           (f)   "Employee" means any person, including an officer, who  is
customarily employed for at least twenty (20) hours per week and more  than
five  (5) months in a calendar year by the Company or one of its Designated
Subsidiaries.

           (g)  "Plan"  shall mean this Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

           (h)  "Section 16 Person" shall mean any person participating  in
the  Plan  who  has  been designated by the Board of  Directors  as  having
authority  to  carry out policy-making functions such that  the  person  is
subject  to the reporting and short-swing profit regulations of Section  16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

                                       33
<PAGE>

           (i)  "Subsidiary" shall mean a corporation, domestic or foreign,
of  which not less than 50% of the voting shares are held by the Company or
a  Subsidiary, whether or not such corporation now exists or  is  hereafter
organized or acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary.

           (j)   "1934  Act  Section  16" shall  mean  Section  16  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations  promulgated
thereunder.

     3.   Eligibility.

           (a)   Any Employee as defined in Section 2 who shall be employed
by the Company or one of its Designated Subsidiaries on the date his or her
participation in the Plan is effective shall be eligible to participate  in
the  Plan,  subject  to the limitations imposed by Section  423(b)  of  the
Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986, as amended; provided that  no  Section  16
Person  who has terminated his or her participation in any offering  period
shall  be  eligible to participate in the Plan during any  offering  period
commencing less than six months after such election to terminate.

           (b)  Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
no  Employee  shall be granted an option under the Plan (i) if, immediately
after  the  grant,  such Employee would own shares and/or hold  outstanding
options to purchase stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total
combined  voting power or value of all classes of shares of the Company  or
of  any  Subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) which permits his or her rights
to  purchase shares under all employee stock purchase plans of the  Company
and its Subsidiaries to accrue at a rate which exceeds Twenty-Five Thousand
Dollars ($25,000) of the fair market value of the shares (determined at the
time  such  option is granted) for each calendar year in which  such  stock
option is outstanding at any time.

      4.    Offering Dates.  The Plan shall be implemented by one  offering
during each six-month period of the Plan, commencing on or about January 1,
1981  and continuing thereafter until terminated in accordance with Section
19  hereof.  The Board of Directors of the Company shall have the power  to
change  the  duration of offering periods with respect to future  offerings
without  shareholder approval if such change is announced at least  fifteen
(15) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the first offering period  to
be affected.

     5.   Participation.

          (a)  An eligible Employee may become a participant in the Plan by
completing a subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions  on  the
form  provided  by  the  Company and filing it with the  Company's  payroll
office prior to the applicable offering date.  Once filed, the subscription
agreement shall remain effective for all subsequent offering periods  until
the participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10 hereof or
files another subscription agreement.

           (b)  Payroll deductions for a participant shall commence on  the
first  payroll following the commencement offering date and shall  continue
at the same rate until such time as the participant withdraws from the Plan
as provided in Section 10 hereof or another subscription agreement is filed
which changes the rate of payroll deductions.

                                       34
<PAGE>

     6.   Payroll Deductions.

           (a)   At  the  time a participant files his or her  subscription
agreement,  he or she shall elect to have payroll deductions made  on  each
payday  during  subsequent offering periods at a  rate  not  exceeding  ten
percent  (10%) of the Compensation which he or she received on such payday,
and  the  aggregate of such payroll deductions during any  offering  period
shall  not  exceed  ten percent (10%) of his or her aggregate  Compensation
during said offering period.

           (b)   All  payroll  deductions made by a  participant  shall  be
credited to his or her account under the Plan.  A participant may not  make
any additional payments into such account.

           (c)   A participant may discontinue his or her participation  in
the  Plan  as  provided in Section 10, or may lower, but not increase,  the
rate of his or her payroll deductions (within the limitations set forth  in
subsection  (a) above) during an offering period by completing  and  filing
with the Company a new authorization for payroll deductions.  The change in
rate  shall  be effective within fifteen (15) days following the  Company's
receipt  of  the new authorization; except in the case of a change  in  the
rate  of  participation of a Section 16 Person, in which  case  the  change
shall  be  effective no earlier than the offering period commencing  on  or
after the end of such fifteen-day period.

           (d)   A  participant  may increase his or her  rate  of  payroll
deductions (within the limitations set forth in subsection (a) above) to be
effective  for the next offering period by completing and filing  with  the
Company  a  new authorization for payroll deductions at least fifteen  (15)
days before the beginning of said offering period.

     7.   Grant of Option.

           (a)   At  the beginning of each six-month offering period,  each
eligible  Employee participating in the Plan shall be granted an option  to
purchase  (at the per share option price) up to a number of shares  of  the
Company's  Common  Stock determined by dividing the Employee's  accumulated
payroll  deductions (not to exceed an amount equal to ten percent (10%)  of
his or her Compensation during the applicable offering period) by the lower
of (i) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a share of the
Company's  Common  Stock on the date of the commencement of  said  offering
period,  or  (ii) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value  of  a
share  of the Company's Common Stock on the date of the expiration  of  the
offering period, subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 3(b)  and
12  hereof, and subject to the following limitation:  The number of  shares
of  the Company's Common Stock subject to any option granted to an Employee
pursuant  to this Plan shall not exceed two hundred percent (200%)  of  the
number  of  shares of the Company's Common Stock determined by dividing  an
amount   equal   to  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  Employee's   semi-annual
Compensation as of the date of the commencement of the applicable  offering
period by eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a share  of
the Company's Common Stock on the date of the commencement of said offering
period.   Fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock  shall
be determined as provided in Section 7(b) herein.

                                       35
<PAGE>

          (b)  The option price per share of such shares shall be the lower
of:  (i) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the Common Stock of the
Company  at the commencement of the six-month offering period; or (ii)  85%
of  the fair market value of a share of the Common Stock of the Company  at
the  time  the  option  is exercised at the termination  of  the  six-month
offering period.  The fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on  a
given date shall be the mean of the reported bid and asked prices for  that
date,  or  if  the Common Stock is listed on an exchange or quoted  on  the
Nasdaq  National  Market,  the  closing sale  price  on  such  exchange  or
quotation system for that date.

     8.   Exercise of Option.  Unless a participant withdraws from the Plan
as  provided  in Section 10, his or her option for the purchase  of  shares
will be exercised automatically at the end of the offering period, and  the
maximum  number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for  him
or  her  at  the  applicable  option price  with  the  accumulated  payroll
deductions  in  his  or  her  account.   During  his  or  her  lifetime,  a
participant's  option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable  only  by
him or her.

     9.   Delivery; Roll-Over of Fractional Share Interests.

           (a)   As  promptly as practicable after the termination of  each
offering,  the Company shall arrange for the delivery to each  participant,
as  appropriate, of a certificate representing the number  of  full  shares
purchased  upon exercise of his or her option.  No fractional shares  shall
be  issued.  Any  cash  remaining to the credit of a participant's  account
under  the Plan after a purchase by him or her of shares at the termination
of  each offering period which is insufficient to purchase a full share  of
Common  Stock  of  the  Company  subject to option  shall  remain  in  such
participant's account and shall be applied to the next succeeding  offering
period  unless the participant has withdrawn as to future offering periods,
in  which  case such cash shall be returned to said participant.  Any  cash
attributable to shares in excess of the number of shares subject to  option
to  the  participant (as determined in accordance with Section 7(a) hereof)
shall be returned to the participant.

           (b)  A Section 16 Person purchasing shares pursuant to this Plan
in  any  offering period shall not directly nor indirectly sell such shares
or  any  beneficial  interest in such shares for a  period  of  six  months
following  the end of such offering period where such sale would constitute
a violation under 1934 Act Section 16.

     10.  Withdrawal; Termination of Employment.

           (a)   A  participant may withdraw all but not less than all  the
payroll  deductions credited to his or her account under the  Plan  at  any
time  prior to the end of the offering period by giving written  notice  to
the  Company.  All of the participant's payroll deductions credited to  his
or  her account will be paid to him or her promptly after receipt of his or
her  notice of withdrawal and his or her option for the current period will
be  automatically  terminated, and no further payroll  deductions  for  the
purchase of shares will be made during the offering period.

                                       36
<PAGE>

           (b)   Upon termination of the participant's employment prior  to
the  end  of  the offering period for any reason, including  retirement  or
death,  the  payroll  deductions credited to his or  her  account  will  be
returned  to him or her or, in the case of his or her death, to the  person
or persons entitled thereto under Section 14, and his or her option will be
automatically terminated.

           (c)   In the event an Employee fails to remain in the continuous
employ  of the Company or one of its Designated Subsidiaries for  at  least
twenty (20) hours per week during the offering period in which the employee
is a participant, he or she will be deemed to have elected to withdraw from
the Plan and the payroll deductions credited to his or her account will  be
returned to him or her and his or her option terminated.

           (d)   Except as provided in Section 3(a) with respect to Section
16  Persons, a participant's withdrawal from an offering will not have  any
effect  upon his or her eligibility to participate in a succeeding offering
or  in  any  similar plan which may hereafter be adopted  by  the  Company.
However, a new subscription agreement will have to be filed in such case.

      11.  No Interest.  No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions
of a participant in the Plan.

     12.  Stock.

           (a)   The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock
which  shall  be  made available for sale under the Plan  shall  be  eleven
million  five  hundred thousand (11,500,000) shares, subject to  adjustment
upon  changes in capitalization of the Company as provided in  Section  18.
The  shares to be sold to participants under the Plan may, at the  election
of  the  Company,  be  either  treasury shares  or  shares  authorized  but
unissued.  If at the termination of any offering period the total number of
shares  which  would  otherwise be subject to options granted  pursuant  to
Section  7(a) hereof exceeds the number of shares then available under  the
Plan  (after deduction of all shares for which options have been  exercised
or   are   then  outstanding),  the  Company  shall  promptly  notify   the
participants,  and  shall,  in its sole discretion  (i)  make  a  pro  rata
allocation of the shares remaining available for option grant in as uniform
a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall determine to be equitable,
(ii)  terminate the offering period without issuance of any shares or (iii)
obtain  shareholder  approval  of  an increase  in  the  number  of  shares
authorized under the Plan such that all options could be exercised in full.
The  Company  may delay determining which of (i), (ii) or  (iii)  above  it
shall  decide to effect, and may accordingly delay issuances of any  shares
under  the  Plan,  for  such  time as is necessary  to  attempt  to  obtain
shareholder approval of any increase in shares authorized under  the  Plan.
The  Company  shall  promptly notify participants of its  determination  to
effect  (i),  (ii) or (iii) above upon making such decision.  A participant
may  withdraw all but not less than all the payroll deductions credited  to
his  or  her  account under the Plan at any time prior to such notification
from  the  Company.  In the event the Company determines to effect  (i)  or
(ii)  above,  it  shall  promptly upon such determination  return  to  each
participant  all  payroll deductions not applied towards  the  purchase  of
shares.

           (b)   The  participant will have no interest or voting right  in
shares covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised.

                                       37
<PAGE>

           (c)  Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will
be  registered  in  the  name of the participant or  in  the  name  of  the
participant and the spouse of the participant.

     13.  Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by a committee of
members  of  the Board of Directors, which committee shall be appointed  by
the  Board.  The administration, interpretation or application of the  Plan
by  such  committee  shall  be  final,  conclusive  and  binding  upon  all
participants.   Members  of  the  committee  shall  not  be  permitted   to
participate in the Plan.

     14.  Designation of Beneficiary.

           (a)   A  participant  may indicate in his  or  her  subscription
agreement,  or may file a written designation of beneficiary  with  respect
to,  a  person  who  is to receive any shares and cash, if  any,  from  the
participant's  account  under the Plan in the event of  such  participant's
death subsequent to the end of the offering period but prior to delivery to
him or her of such shares and cash.  In addition, a participant may file  a
written  designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash  from  the
participant's  account  under the Plan in the event of  such  participant's
death prior to the end of the offering period.

           (b)   Such  designation of beneficiary may  be  changed  by  the
participant at any time by written notice.  In the event of the death of  a
participant  and  in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated  under
the Plan who is living at the time of such participant's death, the Company
shall  deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or administrator  of
the  estate of the participant, or if no such executor or administrator has
been  appointed  (to  the knowledge of the Company), the  Company,  in  its
discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to any one
or  more  dependents  or relatives of the participant,  or  if  no  spouse,
dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as
the Company may designate.

      15.   Transferability.   Neither payroll  deductions  credited  to  a
participant's  account nor any rights with regard to  the  exercise  of  an
option  or  to  receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred,
pledged  or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the  laws
of  descent  and distribution or as provided in Section 14 hereof)  by  the
participant.   Any such attempt at assignment, transfer,  pledge  or  other
disposition shall be without effect, except that the Company may treat such
act as an election to withdraw funds in accordance with Section 10.

      16.   Use of Funds.  All payroll deductions received or held  by  the
Company  under  the  Plan  may be used by the  Company  for  any  corporate
purpose,  and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such  payroll
deductions.

      17.   Reports.   Individual  accounts will  be  maintained  for  each
participant  in  the  Plan.   Statements  of  account  will  be  given   to
participating  Employees semi-annually within a reasonable period  of  time
following  the  stock purchase date, which statements will  set  forth  the
amounts of payroll deductions, the per share purchase price, the number  of
shares  purchased,  the amount of cash rolled over into the  next  offering
period and the remaining cash balance, if any.

                                       38
<PAGE>

      18.   Adjustments  Upon Changes in Capitalization.   Subject  to  any
required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of shares of
Common  Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet  been
exercised  and  the  number  of  shares of Common  Stock  which  have  been
authorized  for issuance under the Plan but have not yet been placed  under
option  (collectively, the "Reserves"), as well as the price per  share  of
Common  Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet  been
exercised,  shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or  decrease
in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split
or  the  payment of a stock dividend (but only on the Common Stock) or  any
other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock effected
without  receipt of consideration by the Company; provided,  however,  that
conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed
to  have been "effected without receipt of consideration".  Such adjustment
shall  be  made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall  be
final,  binding  and conclusive.  Except as expressly provided  herein,  no
issue  by  the  Company  of  shares of stock of any  class,  or  securities
convertible  into  or exercisable for shares of stock of any  class,  shall
affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect  to,
the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option.


      The  Board  may,  if  it so determines in the exercise  of  its  sole
discretion, also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as  the
price  per  share of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option  under
the   Plan,   in  the  event  that  the  Company  effects   one   or   more
reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings or other increases  or
reductions of shares of its outstanding Common Stock, and in the  event  of
the Company being consolidated with or merged into any other corporation.

     19.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.

          (a)  Amendment and Termination.  The Board may at any time amend,
alter,  suspend  or  discontinue the Plan, but  no  amendment,  alteration,
suspension  or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the  rights
of  any participant under any option theretofore granted without his or her
consent.

           (b)  Shareholder Approval.  The Company shall obtain shareholder
approval  of  any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and  desirable  to
comply  with  Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934, as amended, or with Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as  amended (or any successor statute or rule or other applicable law, rule
or  regulation), such shareholder approval to be obtained in such a  manner
and  to  such  a  degree  as  is required by the applicable  law,  rule  or
regulation.

           (c)  Effect of Amendment or Termination.  Any such amendment  or
termination of the Plan shall not affect options already granted  hereunder
and  such options shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had
not been amended or terminated.

                                       39
<PAGE>

     20.  Notices.  All notices or other communications by a participant to
the  Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed  to  have
been  duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at  the
location,  or  by  the person, designated by the Company  for  the  receipt
thereof.   All  notices  or other communications to a  participant  by  the
Company shall be deemed to have been duly given when sent by the Company by
regular  mail  to  the  address of the participant on the  human  resources
records  of  the  Company  or when posted on Applelink  or  any  substitute
general  electronic  messaging and bulletin board system  utilized  by  the
Company.

      21.   Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not be issued
with  respect  to  an  option unless the exercise of such  option  and  the
issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all
applicable  provisions  of  law, domestic or  foreign,  including,  without
limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange
Act  of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
and  the  requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation  system
upon  which  the shares may then be listed or quoted, and shall be  further
subject  to  the approval of counsel for the Company with respect  to  such
compliance.

           As  a  condition to the exercise of an option, the  Company  may
require the person exercising such option to represent and warrant  at  the
time of any such exercise that (i) the shares are being purchased only  for
investment  and  without any present intention to sell or  distribute  such
shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation
is  required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law, and
(ii) in the case of a Section 16 Person, (a) the acquisition of such shares
will  not  cause a violation of the 1934 Act Section 16 and (b) he  or  she
will not directly or indirectly sell such shares or any beneficial interest
in  such  shares  for  a period of six months following  the  end  of  such
offering  period where such sale would constitute a violation of  the  1934
Act Section 16.
                                       40
<PAGE>


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 10.A.7
                                      FY96
                                        
                      SENIOR/EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN
                                        
     
     PURPOSE
     
     The purpose of the Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan "The Plan" is
     to focus the efforts of Senior Management towards predetermined,
     specific goals and objectives which are of critical importance to the
     success of the organization.
     
     The program specifically:
     - encourages participants to achieve outstanding results toward company 
       and individual objectives,
     
     - strengthens the ability of the organization to attract and retain high 
       caliber,key management personnel, and
     
     - provides a leveraged compensation program that is based on performance
       towards objectives, with superior performance resulting in aggressive 
       compensation levels.
     
     
     ELIGIBILITY
     
     The following employees are eligible to participate in the
     Senior/Executive Bonus Plan:
     
           - Chief Executive Officer  - Vice Presidents
           - Geography Presidents     - Senior Directors
           - Senior Vice Presidents   - Directors
     
     Full year participants in the Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan
     may not participate in other bonus plans without the approval of the
     Division President and the HR Director.  However, nominal gift
     certificates and awards are acceptable, provided they are less than
     $500.
     
     
     INCENTIVE BONUS GUIDELINES
     
     Bonus targets for eligible participants in the Senior/Executive
     Incentive Bonus Plan will be set individually and expressed as a
     percent of base salary as of the beginning of the fiscal year
     according to salary grade.  If an individual's salary grade changes
     between the beginning and the end of the year, the bonus target may be
     adjusted on a prorated basis (see Administrative Procedures).
     
     
     PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS
     
     There are two main components used to determine the bonus payout
     amounts after the end of the applicable biannual payment period (see
     Bonus Payouts):  the Financial Performance Measurements  and the
     Individual Performance Measurements .  Details of these measurements
     are described below.
     
     - Financial Performance Measurements
       The Financial Performance Measurements consist of Market Share,
       Operating Margin, Inventory Turns, Day Sales Outstanding, Corporate
       Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), and Time to Market.  All Plan
       participants will be measured on either Corporate or Division
       Business Measurements as described in the Weighting of Performance
       Measurements section.
                                       41
<PAGE>
     
     - Individual Performance Measurements
       The Individual Performance Measurement  is based on the participant's
       performance against two to four objectives that are aligned with 
       Corporate/Division strategic objectives.
     
     
     
     Weighting of Performance Measurements
     
     The annual bonus target for Vice Presidents and above is weighted 100%
     on Financial Performance Measurements.  The annual bonus target for
     Directors is weighted 70% on Financial Performance Measurements and
     30% on Individual Performance Measurements.  These weightings are
     shown in the table below.  The financial results used in determining
     financial performance are based on the participant's position and area
     of responsibility and will be either a Corporate or Division
     measurement.  Functional Staff (e.g., Finance, Human Resources,
     Information Systems and Legal) within a Division will be measured on
     the overall Division's Business Measurements.  Other line or staff
     participants within a division may be measured on the Division's
     Business Measurements which are specific to their area of
     responsibility (e.g., Entry Mac Products, Power Books, Imaging, etc.).
     Details of the weighting of Financial and Individual Performance
     Measurements are as follows:
     
     
               FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS (1)                TOTL TOTL
                                                                       %    %
                                      Mkt Corp Oper Inv DaySales Time Fin  Ind
                                      Shr ROCE Mar Turns  O/S     To  Perf Perf
                                                                  Mkt Meas Meas
     Apple Leadership Team (ALT)
     -  CEO-CFO-SVPHR-General Counsel 50% 50%                         100%
     -  WWOps - Head                  50% 50%                         100%
     -  Research & Development - Head 50% 50%                         100%
     -  GEO Pres. (Americas,Eur,Pac)  50% 50%			      100%
     
     Vice Presidents (Corp. & Div.)
     -  Corporate Staff - All VP's    50% 50%                         100%
     -  WWOps - All VP's (2)          40% 30%        30%              100%
     -  R & D - All VP's              40%       20%               40% 100%
     -  Entertainment & NM - All VP's 50% 50%                         100%
     -  GEO VP's (Americas,Eur,Pac)   50%       20%  15%   15%        100%
     
     Directors & SIA's (Corp. & Div.)
     -  Corp Staff - All Dirs & SIA's 35% 35%			       70%  30%
     -  WWOps - All Dirs & SIA's (2)  30% 20%         20%              70%  30%
     -  R & D - All Dirs & SIA's      30%       15%               25%  70%  30%
     -  Ent & NM - All Dirs & SIA's   35% 35%			       70%  30%
     -  GEO Dirs&SIA's(Amer,Eur,Pac)  30%       20%   10%  10%	       70%  30%
     
     
     
     (1)Financial Performance Measurements may be based on Worldwide,
        Geography, Regional or Functional levels depending upon the area
        of responsibility.  For example, Market Share Measurements will be
        at a Worldwide, Geography, Regional or Country level.   Operating
        Margin may be at a Functional Level such as Mac Desktops or
        Servers and Technology, etc.
     
     (2)WWOPS will be measured on Corporate or Geography Measurements.   
        Geo. Measurements apply to those with specific geographic 
        responsibility (e.g. Cork will use Europe Measurements,
        Singapore will use Pacific Measurements, and Fountain and
        Sacramento will use Americas Measurements).
     
     Any exceptions to using these financial performance measurements must
     be approved by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources.
     
     
     DETAILS OF AWARD DETERMINATION:
     
     Target payouts (less deductions and withholdings) will be based on the
     expectation of meeting financial and, if applicable, individual
     performance goals.  If the thresholds are met, period-end payouts will
     be calculated in each segment as described below.
     
     
     
     
                                       42
<PAGE>
     
     FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS
     
     - Corporate Performance Measurements
       Corporate Performance Measurements will be Market Share, Return 
       on Capital Employed (ROCE) and Inventory Turns.  If the threshold 
       is met, the bonus target will be multiplied by a percentage from 
       50% through 175% depending on Corporate Performance.  If the 
       threshold is not met, there will be no payout for that performance 
       segment.
     
     - Division/Geography Performance Measurements
       Division/Geography Performance Measurements will be
       Market Share, Operating Margin, Inventory Turns, Day Sales
       Outstanding, and Time to Market.  If the threshold is met, the
       bonus target will be multiplied by a minimum percentage which
       varies by Performance Measurement (see Payout Table in each
       segment) through a maximum percentage of 175% depending on
       Division/Geography Performance.  If the threshold is not met, there
       will be no payout for that performance segment.  Plan numbers and
       actual performance will be monitored by the Worldwide Planning
       Group and the Worldwide Market Tracking Group.
     
       If for any reason there is a significant change in a
       Division's/Geography's plan during the plan payment period, upon
       joint recommendation of Human Resources and Worldwide Planning or
       Worldwide Market Tracking and with the approval of the Chief
       Executive Officer, plan targets may be changed or another
       alternative may be implemented.
     
       If for any reason, including reorganization, a Division/Geography 
       Business Measurement is no longer applicable for the entire payment 
       period, the Division Business Measurement will be replaced by the 
       higher Division, Geography or Corporate Business Measurement.
     
     
     PAYOUT TABLES:
     
     The bonus payouts at various achievements to plan for the Financial
     Measures are shown in the following tables.  Actual payouts in between
     the values shown in the tables will be calculated on the actual
     incremental % achievement to plan.  With the exception of Market Share
     and Time to Market, Accelerators and Decelerators are used when
     achievement to plan is above or below 100%.  For Market Share and Time
     to Market, Accelerators and Decelerators are used when achievement to
     plan is above or below 110%.
     
     Market Share Segment
     This Segment will measure Market Share Percentage Achievement of
     Reported Market Share Gain versus Target Market Share Gain as shown in
     the Market Share Payout Table below:
     
                    FIRST HALF FY96 Market Share Payout Table
                                        
                       % Achievement
                    Reported Market Share    %              %
                       Gain vs. Target      Bonus           Per
                      Market Share Gain     Payout         Point
         MAXIMUM        150%               175.0%          1.30%
                        140%               162.0%          1.30%
                        130%               149.0%          1.30%
                        120%               136.0%          1.30%
                        110%               123.0%          1.30%
         PLAN           100%               110.0%       Accelerators
                                                        Decelerators
                         90%               103.3%          0.67%
                         80%                96.7%          0.67%
                         70%                90.0%          0.67%
                         60%                83.3%          0.67%
                         50%                76.7%          0.67%
                         40%                70.0%          0.67%
                         30%                63.3%          0.67%
                         20%                56.7%          0.67%
       THRESHOLD         10%                50.0%          0.67%
                 Below   10%                 0.0%

                                       43
<PAGE>
     
     
     
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                 First Half FY96
                     Supplemental Market Share Payout Table
     (This table to be used only for Target Market Share Gain Goals of Less
                             Than 0.20 of a point.)
     
                                                             Bonus
                      Market Share Points                    Payout
     
     MAXIMUM    0.50  0.40  0.30  0.20  0.10  0.00 -0.10 Or Less 175.00%
                0.40  0.30  0.20  0.10  0.00 -0.10 -0.20   158.75%
                0.30  0.20  0.10  0.00 -0.10 -0.20 -0.30   142.50%
                0.20  0.10  0.00 -0.10 -0.20 -0.30 -0.40   126.25%
     PLAN       0.10  0.00 -0.10 -0.20 -0.30 -0.40 -0.50   110.00% Accelerators
                                                                   Decelerators
                0.00 -0.10 -0.20 -0.30 -0.40 -0.50 -0.60    93.75%
     THRESHOLD -0.02 -0.12 -0.22 -0.33 -0.44 -0.55 -0.66    80.00%
         Below -0.02 -0.12 -0.22 -0.33 -0.44 -0.55 -0.66     0.00%
     
     
     For example, a country has a Target Market Share Goal of -0.10 and
     achieves a Reported Market Share Gain above target of 0.05.  The Bonus
     Payout percentage would be 134.375%.
     
     
     Apple Market Share Targets
     
     Apple market share targets will be based on Apple's semi-annual market
     share goals as approved by Apple's Board of Directors preceding the
     measurement period.  The Apple Leadership Team will be responsible for
     allocating overall targets to individual countries/regions.
     
     
     Reported Apple Market Share Gain (Loss)
     
     Market share gain or (loss) will be based on Apple Market Share data
     for the total first half fiscal year 1995 (Q1 and Q2 FY95) as compared
     to Apple Market Share data for the total first half fiscal year 1996
     (Q1 and Q2 FY96) as reported by Apple's Market Tracking Group.  The
     Apple Market Share Gain or (Loss) will be the difference between the
     Apple Market Share over the two periods (first half FY95 versus first
     half FY96).  Apple Market Share is defined as Apple's actual CPU's
     (including servers) sold during the Bonus Metric Measurement period
     divided by the reported market CPU's (including servers) sold during
     the same period (as tracked by the Corporate Market Tracking group).
     
     For examples of Market Share calculations refer to the Reported Market
     Share section in the Market Share Examples table below.
     
     Market share gain or (loss) calculations for countries or regions that
     are not measured quarterly by Apple's Market Tracking Group (all
     countries/regions excluding U.S., Japan, and Western European
     countries) will be sized by Apple's Market Tracking Group based on the
     most recent market data available.  If there is no new data available,
     the original market size will be used to calculate the reported Market
     Share.
     
     
     
     Apple Total Geography Market Share
     
     Apple Total Geography Market Share is a roll-up of all the countries
     and/or regions market share numbers within the total geography being
     measured.
                                        
                                        
                                       44
<PAGE>
                                        
                                        
     Time To Market Segment
     
     This segment will measure achievement of product delivery commitments
     in the Research & Development Organization.  Time to Market is defined
     as the Golden Master Target (software) or the Introduction Date
     (hardware) as defined and approved through the Apple New Product
     Production (ANPP) Product Proposal Review (PPR). If the achievement is
     8 or more weeks ahead of schedule, the maximum bonus of 175% is
     payable.  If the achievement is 8 or more weeks behind schedule, no
     bonus is payable.  The bonus payable will be determined based on the
     following table.
     
     
     
                  Time To Market Payout Table  (Division Only)
     
                          ACHIEVEMENT
                           # WEEKS TO       %               %
                             TARGET      PAYOUT          PER WEEK
     
         MAXIMUM        > =   8           175.0%           8.125%
                              7           166.9%           8.125%
                              6           158.8%           8.125%
     # Weeks                  5           150.6%           8.125%
     Ahead Of - - - - ->      4           142.5%           8.125%
     Target Date              3           134.4%           8.125%
                              2           126.3%           8.125%
                              1           118.1%           8.125%
         PLAN                 0           110%            Accelerators
                                                          Decelerators
                            - 1            96.1%          13.929%
     # Weeks                - 2            82.1%          13.929%
     Slipped From - - - ->  - 3            68.2%          13.929%
     Target Date            - 4            54.3%          13.929%
                            - 5            40.4%          13.929%
                            - 6            26.4%          13.929%
         THRESHOLD          - 7            12.5%          13.929%
                       < =  - 8             0.0%
     
     
     
     NOTE: Actual payouts in between the values shown will be calculated on
     the actual incremental % achievement to plan based on a seven day
     week.  For example, if achievement is 1 day ahead of schedule, the
     payout would be 111.16%.
     
     
     Corporate ROCE and Operating Margin Segments
     
     - Corporate ROCE Segment
     
       This segment measures Return on Capital Employee achieved to Plan.  
       ROCE is defined as Operating Profit less Cash Taxes Paid, divided 
       by Average Capital Employed (Total Assets excluding Cash, less Current
       Liabilities (excluding Short Term Notes Payable) plus Capitalized 
       Operating Leases).
     
     
     - Operating Margin Segment
     
       This segment measures Operating Margin achieved to Plan.  Operating 
       Margin is defined as Gross Margin Less Operating Expenses.
     
     
     
                                       45
<PAGE>
     
     
     Once minimum thresholds are met, bonus payouts for both Corporate ROCE
     and Operating Margin can range from 50% to 175% based on the following
     payout table:
     
                Corporate ROCE and Operating Margin Payout Table
     
                            % To        % Bonus        % Per Each
                             Plan         Payout           Point
     
         MAXIMUM          125%           175%              3.00%
                          120%           160%              3.00%
                          115%           145%              3.00%
                          110%           130%              3.00%
                          105%           115%              3.00%
         PLAN             100%           100%            Accelerators
                                                         Decelerators
                           95%            75%              5.00%
         THRESHOLD         90%            50%              5.00%
                        <  90%             0%
     
     
     
     Inventory Turns Segment
     
     This segment measures Inventory Turns achieved to Plan.  Inventory
     Turns is defined as the number of times inventory is converted into
     cost of goods sold (excluding all service business).  Plan
     participants employed in a worldwide operations role with worldwide
     responsibilities are measured on worldwide inventory turns.  Most
     participants employed in a Geography are measured on Geography
     inventory turns.  Regional operations groups and manufacturing site
     participants are measured on regional inventory turns.  Please refer
     to the Glossary of Terms section of this document for more details of
     how the Inventory Turns metric is defined. Once the minimum threshold
     is met, bonus payouts for Inventory Turns can range from 50% to 175%
     based on the following payout table:
     
     
                          Inventory Turns Payout Table
                                        
                          % To          % Bonus      % Per Each
                          Plan            Payout           Point
     
         MAXIMUM       123%              175%              3.26%
                       115%              150%              3.26%
                       105%              116%              3.26%
         PLAN          100%              100%            Accelerators
                                                         Decelerators
                        95%               75%              5.00%
         THRESHOLD      90%               50%              5.00%
                     <  90%                0%
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
                                       46
<PAGE>
     
     
     
     
     Day Sales Outstanding Segment
     
     This segment measures Day Sales Outstanding (DSO) achieved to Plan.
     Day Sales Outstanding is defined as the measure for average length of
     time Apple must wait after making a sale before receiving payment.
     Once the minimum threshold is met, bonus payouts for DSO can range
     from 50% to 175% based on the following payout table:
     
                       Day Sales Outstanding Payout Table
                                        
                         % To          % Bonus       % Per Each
                          Plan           Payout           Point
     
         MAXIMUM       115%              175%              5.0%
                       110%              150%              5.0%
                       105%              125%              5.0%
         PLAN          100%              100%           Accelerators
                                                        Decelerators
                        95%               75%              5.0%
         THRESHOLD      90%               50%              5.0%
                     <  90%                0%
     
     
     
     INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT (Directors only):
     
     The Individual Performance measurement is based on the participant's
     performance against two to four key strategic, predetermined
     objectives.  The Individual Performance Measurement objectives are
     determined jointly by the participant and the supervising manager.
     Each goal is weighted as to its importance.  The overall weighting
     must equal 100%.  Individual performance is determined by the
     supervising manager and is subject to approval by the Compensation
     Committee of the Board of Directors before any actual payout is
     issued.  Individual performance is measured as follows:
     % of Individual
     Achievement                                       Target Award Paid
     
     CONSISTENTLY EXCEEDED Individual Performance Goals  121% - 150%
     CONSISTENTLY MET ALL Individual Performance Goals   100% - 120%
     MET MOST Individual Performance Goals                80% -  99%
     DID NOT MEET Individual Performance Goals           No Award Paid
     
     The overall assessment of the individual performance segment is
     calculated by multiplying the targeted dollar amount by the %
     achievement for each category as shown in the example below:
       Target Bonus = $40,000
       Individual Performance segment = $12,000 (30% of Target Bonus)
       Weighting is calculated as shown below for each of the performance areas
       Overall individual performance weighting of 103% = a payout of $12,360
     
     
                                     Individual      Individual     Individual
                         Weighting   Achievement   X   Target    =   Payout
     
     Quality Management     40%    Met Most   85%
     Customer Satisfaction  30%    Exceeded  130%
     Employee Alighment     30%    Met all   100%
     Overall               100%              103%  X  $12,000    =   $12,360
     
     
     The percentage award achieved under the Individual Performance
     Measurement is then applied to the portion of the Target Bonus, i.e.
     30%, to determine the actual Individual Performance portion of the
     award.
                                       47
<PAGE>
     
     
     The target will be multiplied by a percentage up to a maximum of 150%
     depending on the supervising manager's overall assessment of the
     individual's performance against objectives.  Ratings of all
     participants will then be reviewed at higher levels of management
     within the organization to ensure equity.  This information will then
     be reviewed by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
     and, depending on overall financial performance, individual percentage
     payouts may then be adjusted.
     
     If the Individual Performance portion of the bonus is determined to be
     zero, no Financial portion of the bonus will be payable.  Exceptions
     to zero payment for Individual Performance below 80%, and/or paying
     the Financial portion of the bonus when the Individual Performance is
     below 80%, must be approved by the Division Head or Sr. Vice
     President, and the Division Human Resources Manager.  (Note: Also see
     the Corrective Action/Disciplinary Situations  section.)
     
     
     
     BONUS PAYOUT
     
     Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan payouts (less deductions and
     withholdings) will be paid biannually.  The first payment will be
     based on "1st Half" (Q1 and Q2) Financial Performance results and will
     be paid as soon as practicable, usually during May/June after the
     close of Q2.  The second payment will be based on "2nd Half" (Q3 and
     Q4) Financial Performance results as well as Individual Performance
     results for the entire fiscal year (Q1 through Q4) and will be paid as
     soon as practicable, usually during November/December following the
     end of the plan year.  Both awards are paid out of the
     Senior/Executive Bonus Pool Fund.
     
     There will be no Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan payout on
     Financial or Individual performance if there is no Corporate operating
     profit or if there is a Corporate operating loss.  In either case, the
     CEO has the option to recommend to the Compensation Committee of the
     Board of Directors appropriate individual awards.
     
     
     ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
     
     The purpose of administrative procedures is to provide for consistency
     of administration of the incentive plans.  The following guidelines
     apply only when previously stated plan requirements have been met.
     
     Foreign Exchange
     Non U.S. operations are measured on a local currency basis.  Foreign
     currency Plan rates will be used to determine both the Planned and
     actual performance of the entity for bonus calculation purposes.
     
     New Hires, Promotions and Transfers
     An employee who is hired, promoted or transferred into a position in
     which he or she is newly eligible to become a participant may receive
     a prorated award based on the months in the position (see Payout
     Proration Criteria  section).
     Employees promoted or transferred from one eligible position into
     another eligible position will require a determination of whether a
     new target award and new objectives should be set.  If the new target
     is different, awards will be prorated based on the number of months of
     service in each position during the plan year.  (see Payout Proration
     Criteria  section).
     
     Employees transferred into a position not eligible for participation
     in the Senior/Executive Bonus Plan will receive a prorated payment at
     the end of the plan year based on the number of months worked in the
     eligible position.  If the employee transfers during the first
     biannual period, the employee will receive payment of the prorated
     Financial portion of the bonus with the normal payout in May/June.
     The prorated Individual portion (if applicable) will be paid at the
     end of the plan year provided the participant is employed by Apple on
     the last day of the year end payment period.  (see next section)
     
     
     Payout Proration Criteria
     
     -  New Hires and Promotions
       If eligibility for participation occurs on the 1st through the 14th
       of the month, any bonus payout will be based on the full month.  If
       eligibility for participation occurs on or after the 15th of the
       month, no bonus is payable for that month.
     
       For example, if an eligible employee is hired on March 11th, any
       payout will be based on participation beginning March 1st.  If the
       employee is hired on March 15th, any payout will be based on
       participation beginning April 1st.

                                       48
<PAGE>
     
       
     - Transfers
       If a plan participant transfers from one organization to another,
       the respective organizational measurement will be prorated by the
       number of months the plan participant was in each organization.  If
       the participant transfers before the 15th of the month, credit for
       that month will be assigned to the new organization.  If the
       participant transfers on or after the 15th of the month, credit for
       that month will be assigned to the previous organization.
     
     - Transfers between the SIA Bonus Plan and the Senior/Executive Bonus Plan
       If a plan participant transfers between the SIA Bonus Plan and
       Senior/Executive Bonus Plan because of a promotion, demotion or
       other reason, the respective Plan measurement will be prorated by
       the number of months the plan participant was in each Plan.  If the
       participant transfers before the 15th of the month, credit for that
       month will be assigned to the new Plan.  If the participant
       transfers on or after the 15th of the month, credit for that month
       will be assigned to the previous Plan in which the employee was a
       participant.
     
     - Ineligibility
       Participants who become ineligible for participation in the Plan
       before the 15th of the month, will receive no credit for that month
       toward their bonus proration.  Participants who become ineligible
       on or after the 15th of the month will receive a full-month credit
       towards their bonus proration.
     
     
     Terminations
     
     Plan participants who terminate their employment and are not employed
     by Apple on the last day of the first biannual payment period are not
     eligible to receive any award.  If a plan participant terminates after
     the close of the first biannual payment period but prior to the actual
     distribution of the bonus payout such participant will be eligible to
     receive the Financial portion of the bonus award with the normal
     payout in May/June.  They will not be eligible for the individual
     portion of the bonus award, nor will they be eligible for an award for
     the second biannual period. Plan participants who terminate their 
     employment and are not employed by Apple on the last day of the plan 
     year are not eligible to receive an award for the second biannual period,
     nor will they be eligible for the individual portion of the award.  If a
     plan participant terminates after the end of the Plan Year but prior to
     the actual distribution of the bonus payout such participant will be 
     eligible to receive a bonus plan award according to the terms of the Plan.
     
     
     Rehires
     
     Plan participants who terminate their employment during the Plan year,
     and who are rehired and are employed by Apple on the last day of the
     biannual payment period, are eligible to receive an award.  Such an
     award will be prorated to reflect only the period of time the
     participant was employed by Apple and according to the above Payout
     Proration Criteria measured from the most recent rehire date.
     
     
     Disability or Death
     
     Awards will normally be prorated at the end of the plan year based on
     the amount of time the employee was an active participant (see Payout
     Proration Criteria section).  In the case of a participant's death,
     any such award will be paid to the beneficiary as determined pursuant
     to the participant's designation of beneficiary under the employee's
     Apple life insurance plan.
     
     
     Corrective Actions/Disciplinary Situations
     
     If, during the applicable biannual bonus period or any time before the
     biannual bonus has actually been paid to the employee, management has
     determined that corrective action, discipline or demotion of an
     employee is appropriate, management may, in its discretion and in
     consultation with Human Resources, reduce or eliminate entirely the
     amount of bonus the employee would otherwise be eligible to receive.
     If, at the time a biannual bonus would otherwise be payable, such
     corrective action, discipline or demotion is being considered but has
     not yet been implemented, the entire bonus, or any portion of it, may 
     be withheld until a decision on such action has been finalized and 
     implemented.
                                       49
<PAGE>
     
     
     
     Other Provisions
     
     Participation in this Plan is not an agreement (express or implied)
     between the Plan participant and Apple that the participant will be
     employed by Apple for any specific period of time, nor is there any
     agreement for continuing or long-term employment.  The Plan
     participant and Apple each have the right to terminate the employment
     relationship at any time and for any reason.  This at-will employment
     relationship can only be modified by an agreement signed by the
     participant and Apple's Senior Vice President of Human Resources.
     
     Any determination of performance, payment or other matters under this
     Plan by management and/or the Board of Directors is binding on all
     interested persons.
     
     Apple Computer Inc.'s obligation to pay out a Senior/Executive
     Incentive Bonus Plan award shall be unfunded and all payment of
     benefits shall be made from the general assets of Apple Computer, Inc.
     Title to and beneficial ownership of any assets of the 1996 Accrued
     Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan accounts or any other assets
     which Apple Computer, Inc. may designate to pay bonuses under the Plan
     shall remain in and with Apple Computer, Inc.until payment to
     participants.
     
     This summary highlights the principle features of the bonus plan, but
     it does not describe every situation that can occur. Apple Computer,
     Inc. retains the right to interpret, revise, modify or delete the plan
     at its sole discretion at any time
                                                                           
                                       50
<PAGE>
     
                              Glossary of Terms              Attachment A.
                                        
- - Day Sales Outstanding:      Measure For Average Length Of Time Apple
                              Must Wait After Making A Sale Before
                              Receiving Payment
     
     
- - Inventory Turns:            The number of times inventory is converted
                              into cost of goods sold (excluding all
                              service business).  Most participants
                              employed in a Geography are measured on
                              Geography inventory turns.  Operations
                              groups and manufacturing site participants
                              in Geographies are measured on regional
                              inventory turns.  Plan participants employed
                              in a worldwide operations role are measured
                              on worldwide inventory turns.  Everyone else
                              in a Geography is measured on Geography
                              inventory turns.
     
                              Geography inventory turns
                              1H Turns = Standard Cost of Goods Sold for
                              1H divided by average gross finished goods 
			      inventory for current & 2 prior fiscal quarter 
			      ends.  Where the standard Cost of Goods Sold is
                              the cost of goods sold at standard cost
                              excluding other cost of goods sold
                              (warranty, scrap, reserves etc.), and gross
                              finished goods inventory is finished goods
                              inventory at standard cost before reserves
                              in-transits from OEM vendors.
     
                              Regional inventory turns
                              1H Turns = Standard Cost of Goods Sold for
                              1H divided by average gross inventory for current 
                              & 2 prior fiscal quarter ends.  Where standard
                              Cost of Goods Sold is the cost of goods sold
                              at standard cost excluding other cost of
                              goods sold (warranty, scrap, reserves etc.),
                              and gross inventory is raw materials, work-
                              in-process, finished goods including in-
                              transits from OEM vendors at standard cost
                              before reserves.
     
                              Worldwide inventory turns
                              Current & prior 3 fiscal quarter's Total
                              Cost of Goods Sold divided by average net 
                              inventory for current & 4 prior fiscal quarter
                              ends. Where total Cost of Goods Sold is the
                              total cost of goods sold including other cost of
                              goods sold (warranty, scrap, reserves etc.),
                              net inventory is total inventory at standard
                              cost after reserves.
     
- - Market Share Gain (Loss)    The difference between Apple Market
                              Share for a specified period in one fiscal
                              year and Apple Market Share for the
                              corresponding period of another fiscal year.
     
     
- - Operating Margin:           Gross Margin Less Operating Expenses
     
     
- - Return On Capital Employed: (ROCE) Operating Profit Less Cash Taxes
                              Paid Divided By Average Capital Employed
                              (Total Assets Excluding Cash, Less Current
                              Liabilities (Excluding Short Term Notes)
                              Plus Capitalized Operating Leases)
     
     
- - Time To Market:             The Golden Master Target (software) or the
                              Introduction Date (hardware) as defined and
                              approved through the Apple New Product
                              Production (ANPP) Product Proposal Review
                              (PPR).
     
                                       51
<PAGE>

     


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 10.A.19




                      APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                    EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN

           (Established Effective as of June 1, 1991)

   (As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 15, 1996)



                                       52
<PAGE>

                       CONTENTS

                                                            

SECTION 1.     ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE                       
     1.1  Establishment                                        
     1.2  Purpose                                              
     1.3  Supersession                                         

SECTION 2.     DEFINITIONS                                     
     2.1  "Apple"                                              
     2.2  "Apple Disability Plan"                              
     2.3  "Cash Out Payment"                                   
     2.4  "Company"                                            
     2.5  "Domestic Partner"                                   
     2.6  "Early Termination Date"                             
     2.7  "Election and Release"                               
     2.8  "Eligible Employee"                                  
     2.9  "Employee"                                           
     2.10 "Employer Group"                                     
     2.11 "ERISA"                                              
     2.12 "Extended Benefit Coverage"                          
     2.13 "Family Leave of Absence"                            
     2.14 "Month of Pay"                                       
     2.15 "Notification Date"                                  
     2.16 "Participant"                                        
     2.17 "Personal Leave of Absence"                          
     2.18 "Plan"                                               
     2.19 "Plan Year"                                          
     2.20 "Prorated Bonus"                                     
     2.21 "Regular Employee"                                   
     2.22 "Regular Salary"                                     
     2.23 "Severance Benefits"                                 
     2.24 "Severance Payment"                                  
     2.25 "Termination Date"                                   
     2.26 "Termination Notice Period"                          
     2.27 "Years of Service"                                   

SECTION 3.     PARTICIPATION                                   
     3.1  Limited to Designated Eligible Employees             
     3.2  Commencement of Participation                        
     3.3  Persons Who Shall Not Be Designated as Participants  
          (a)  Employment Termination                          
          (b)  Resignation                                     
          (c)  Written Employment Contract                     
          (d)  Redeployment or Layoff Plan                     
          (e)  Host Country                                    
          (f)  Expatriate Employee                             
          (g)  Personal Leave of Absence                       
     3.4  Termination of Participation                         
     3.5  Ineligible for Personal Leave                        
     3.6  Family Leave Limitations                             
                                       53
<PAGE>

SECTION 4.     TERMINATION NOTICE PERIOD                      
     4.1  Term of Termination Notice Period                   
     4.2  Suspension of Termination Notice Period             
          (a)  Disability                                     
          (b)  Temporary Assignment                           
          (c)  Restart                                        
     4.3  Extension of Termination Notice Period Under 
          Limited Circumstances                               
     4.4  Continuation of Employment and Employee Benefits 
          During Termination Notice Period                    
     4.5  Additional Benefits During Termination Notice 
          Period                                              
     4.6  Termination of Employee Benefits at End of 
          Termination Notice Period                           

SECTION 5.     ELECTION TO RECEIVE SEVERANCE BENEFITS         
     5.1  Availability of Severance Benefits                  
     5.2  Must Sign Election and Release                      
     5.3  Effect of Failure To Elect Severance Benefits       

SECTION 6.     CASH OUT PAYMENT                               
     6.1  Availability of Cash Out Payment                    
     6.2  Effect of Election To Receive a Cash Out Payment    
     6.3  Ineligible for Rehire                               
     6.4  Ineligible for Temporary or Contract Work           

SECTION 7.     AMOUNT AND PAYMENT OF BENEFITS UNDER THE PLAN  
     7.1  Severance Payment                                   
     7.2  Prorated Bonus                                      
     7.3  Extended Benefit Coverage                           
     7.4  Cash Out Payment                                    
     7.5  Offset for Amounts Owed                             
     7.6  Time of Payment of Benefits Under the Plan          
          (a)  Payment Before Termination                     
          (b)  Form and Time of Payment                       
     7.7  Death                                               

SECTION 8.     SOURCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXPENSES                
     8.1  Source of Benefits                                  
     8.2  Expenses                                            

SECTION 9.     ADMINISTRATION AND PLAN FIDUCIARIES            
     9.1  Plan Sponsor and Administrator                      
     9.2  Administrative Responsibilities                     
     9.3  Allocation and Delegation of Responsibilities       
     9.4  No Individual Liability                             
                                       54
<PAGE>

SECTION 10.    CLAIMS AND APPEALS                             
     10.1 Claims for Benefits                                 
          (a)  Time Limits for Submission of Initial Claim    
          (b)  Time Limits for Decision on Initial Claim      
          (c)  Deemed Denial                                  
     10.2 Review of Denied Claims                             
          (a)  Request for Review                             
          (b)  Decision on Review                             
          (c)  Rules and Interpretations                      
     10.3 Exhaustion of Remedies                              
SECTION 11.    GENERAL PROVISIONS                            
     11.1 Legal Construction of the Plan                      
     11.2 Relation of the Plan to Other Employee 
          Benefit Plans                                       
     11.3 No Rights Created or Accrued                        
     11.4 Relation of the Plan to Descriptive Matter          
     11.5 Non-alienation of Benefits                          

SECTION 12.    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION                      
     12.1 Amendment                                           
     12.2 Termination                                         
     12.3 Effect of Amendment or Termination                  

SECTION 13.    EXECUTION                                      


SUPPLEMENT TO THE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN (EFFECTIVE
AS OF JUNE 9, 1995)                                            
                                       55
<PAGE>


                      APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

                 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN (ESP)

           (Established Effective as of June 1, 1991)

   (As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 15, 1996)



1    .    ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.    

     1.1       Establishment.    

The Apple Computer, Inc. Executive Severance Plan was established effective 

as of June 1, 1991.  The Plan was amended and restated effective as of 

January 15, 1996 to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that the 

amendments reflected in this restatement shall not apply to any Eligible 

Employee who was advised in writing prior to January 15, 1996 that he or 

she would be designated as a Participant, even if the Participant's 

Notification Date occurred on or after January 15, 1996.

     1.2       Purpose.  

The purpose of the Plan is to establish the rules by which Apple will pay 

benefits provided under the Plan upon the designation of an Eligible Employee
 
for termination.  The Plan is intended to be, and shall be maintained and 

operated as, an employee welfare benefit plan under ERISA.

     1.3       Supersession.  

This Plan supersedes any plan, program or practice previously in effect by 

which Apple may have provided separation allowances, termination allowances 

or other severance benefits to Employees, other than a written contract of 

employment or a written separation agreement providing such benefits.

                                       56
<PAGE>


     The Plan specifically supersedes benefits provided under the Apple

Computer, Inc. Redeployment Plan and the Apple Computer, Inc. Layoff Plan.

An employee designated for termination under this Plan shall receive

benefits under this Plan in lieu of any and all benefits to which the

employee may claim to be entitled under Apple's Redeployment Plan or Layoff

Plan.

                                       57
<PAGE>


               SECTION 2 .    DEFINITIONS.   

     SECTION 2.1         "Apple"   

"Apple" means Apple Computer, Inc., a California corporation.

     SECTION 2.2         "Apple Disability Plan"  

"Apple Disability Plan" means any plan maintained by Apple for the purpose 

of providing short-term or long-term disability benefits for its employees.

     SECTION 2.3         "Cash Out Payment"  

"Cash Out Payment" means the benefit described in Sections 6 and 7.4.

     SECTION 2.4         "Company" 

"Company" means Apple Computer, Inc., a California corporation and those of

its subsidiaries that it designates, in writing, to participate in the Plan.

     SECTION 2.5         "Domestic Partner"  

"Domestic Partner" means a Domestic Partner for Apple medical benefits as 

defined in the Apple Benefits Book.

     SECTION 2.6         "Early Termination Date" 

"Early Termination Date" means the date prior to a Participant's Termination

Date on which the Participant voluntarily terminates his or her employment 

with the Company.  2.7  "Election and Release".cF..7  "Election and Release";

means the written Executive Severance Plan Election and Release agreement

described  in Section 5.2.

                                       58
<PAGE>
     

SECTION 2.7         "Eligible Employee" 

"Eligible Employee" means an Employee who is employed in any job with a 

grade designation of 94 or above or the equivalent thereof and who is not 

eligible to receive severance benefits under a written contract of employment

or written separation agreement with the Company or under any other plan, 

program or practice by which Apple provides any separation allowance or 

under any federal, state, local or foreign law or regulation.

     SECTION 2.8         "Employee"     

"Employee" means a Regular Employee of the Company who is not hired for a 

fixed period of employment.

     SECTION 2.9         "Employer Group"    

"Employer Group" means Apple and all corporations owned 100%, directly or 

indirectly, by Apple.

     SECTION 2.10        "ERISA"   

"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended,

and includes regulations promulgated thereunder by the Secretary of Labor.

     SECTION 2.11        "Extended Benefit Coverage"   

"Extended Benefit Coverage" means the benefit described in Sections 5.1 

and 7.3.

     SECTION 2.12        "Family Leave of Absence"     

"Family Leave of Absence" means a leave of absence granted to allow an 

Employee to care for a newborn or newly adopted child, or to care for a 

family member with a serious health condition, as defined in the "Personal 

Time" section of the Apple Benefits Book.

     SECTION 2.13        "Month of Pay" 

"Month of Pay" means the Participant's Regular Salary, divided by the number

of working hours per year (2080) and multiplied by the Participant's Standard

Hours Worked Per Month.  For purposes of this Section 2.14, a Participant's 

"Standard Hours Worked Per Month" is defined to be either (i) 173.33, in the 

case of an Eligible Employee regularly scheduled at his or her Notification 

     

                                       59
<PAGE>


Date to work 40 hours per week or classified by Apple as a full-time 

Employee, or (ii) in the case of an Eligible Employee regularly scheduled 

at his or her Notification Date to work less than 40 hours per week or 

classified by Apple as a part-time Employee, the average number of hours 

he or she was scheduled to work per month (not to exceed 173.33) at Apple

during the five  years preceding the Participant's Notification Date, as 

shown on the Participant's personnel action notice(s).

     SECTION 2.14        "Notification Date" 

"Notification Date" means the date upon which a Participant receives 

notification of his or her participation in the Plan as described in 

Section 3.2.

     SECTION 2.15        "Participant"  

"Participant" means an Eligible Employee who has been designated as a 

Participant in the Plan pursuant to Section 3.

     SECTION 2.16        "Personal Leave of Absence"   

"Personal Leave of Absence" means an unpaid leave of absence granted for

pursuits that are beneficial to the Company, extended vacations or other 

compelling personal reasons, as defined in Section 7 of the Apple Benefits

Book.

     SECTION 2.17        "Plan"    

"Plan" means this Apple Computer, Inc. Executive Severance Plan, as adopted 

effective as of June 1, 1991, and as it may be amended (or terminated) from 

time to time.

     SECTION 2.18        "Plan Year"    

"Plan Year" means a period of 12 consecutive months beginning on April 1 and
 
ending on March 31.

     SECTION 2.19        "Prorated Bonus"    

"Prorated Bonus" means the benefit, if any, described in Sections 5.1 and 7.2.

     SECTION 2.20        "Regular Employee"  

"Regular Employee" means an individual who is a common law employee of the 

Company and who is not a flexible workforce employee, co-op intern, college 

     

                                       60
<PAGE>


intern, independent contractor, consultant or temporary agency worker employed 

by an outside agency.  An individual's status as a "Regular Employee" shall be 

determined by Apple.  Subject to Section 10.2 relating to Review of Denied 

Claims, all such determinations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.

     SECTION 2.21        "Regular Salary"    "Regular Salary" means the

Participant's monthly base salary determined as of his or her Notification

Date.

     SECTION 2.22        "Severance Benefits"     

"Severance Benefits" means, collectively, the Severance Payment, the Prorated

Bonus, if any, and the Extended Benefit Coverage.

     SECTION 2.23        "Severance Payment" 

"Severance Payment" means the benefit described in Sections 5.1 and 7.1.

     SECTION 2.24        "Termination Date"  

"Termination Date" means the date specified as the Termination Date in an 

Eligible Employee's written notice of participation in the Plan, and is the 

date used to determine a Participant's Severance Benefits.

     SECTION 2.25        "Termination Notice Period"   

"Termination Notice Period" means the period described in Section 4.1.

     SECTION 2.26        "Years of Service"  

"Years of Service" means the number of days elapsed from the Participant's 

date of hire, measured from the earlier of a Participant's most recent hire 

date or adjusted hire date, through the Participant's Termination Date, 

divided by 365.  For purposes of this Section 2.27, a Participant's "adjusted 

hire date" means his or her most recent hire date adjusted for eligible past 

service with the Company.

                                       61
<PAGE>


               SECTION 3 .    PARTICIPATION.

     SECTION 3.1         Limited to Designated Eligible Employees

Only an Eligible Employee who receives the written notification described 

in Section 3.2 may participate in the Plan.  No other person shall be a 

Participant in the Plan.

     SECTION 3.2         Commencement of Participation 

An Eligible Employee may become a Participant only if he or she receives

written notification that he or she is a Participant.  The notice shall be 

approved by the Division President and the Human Resources Vice 

President/Director of the Eligible Employee's division, or the

designees of such persons, and shall state the Eligible Employee's

Termination Date.  The Eligible Employee's participation in the Plan and

Termination Notice Period will begin on his or her Notification Date or

such other plan participation date as may be provided in such written

notice.

     SECTION 3.3         Persons Who Shall Not Be Designated as Participants

An Eligible Employee shall not be designated as a Participant in the Plan or

receive benefits under the Plan if:

          (a)       Employment Termination     

     A decision has been made to terminate his or her employment for any

     reason not related to the Company's decision to terminate the Employee

     because of business conditions;

          (b)       Resignation    

     He or she has resigned or has given notice of his or her resignation;

                                       62
<PAGE>
          

     (c)       Written Employment Contract   

     He or she is employed under a written employment contract that provides
  
     greater severance or similar benefits than are provided by the Plan;

          (d)       Redeployment or Layoff Plan   

     He or she is currently a participant in any Apple Computer Inc.

     redeployment or layoff plan;

          (e)       Host Country     
    
     He or she is eligible to receive compensation or benefits under the 

     laws of any other country (including, but not limited to, his or her 
    
     host country) or under Company policy or guidelines established pursuant

     thereto, and those laws, policies, or guidelines require payments or 

     benefits greater than or similar to those provided by the Plan;

          (f)       Expatriate Employee   

     If he or she is an expatriate Employee employed by the Company in the 

     United States and has retained the United States as his or her "home 
 
     country;" provided, however, that any such Employee who is repatriated 

     in accordance with his or her assignment contract may be designated as a

     Participant under this Plan after such repatriation; or

          (g)       Personal Leave of Absence     

       He or she is on a Personal Leave of Absence.

Whether benefits as described in Subsections 3(c) or (e) are greater than

the benefits provided under the Plan shall be determined by Apple and such

determinations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.

     SECTION 3.4         Termination of Participation  

A Participant's Plan Participation shall terminate as of the earliest of the

following dates:

                                       63
<PAGE>
          

     (a)       The date the Participant's employment with the Company

     is terminated for any reason (other than death) not related to the

     Company's decision to terminate the Participant because of business

     conditions;

          (b)       The date the Participant accepts an offer of employment

     with any member of the Employer Group; or,

          (c)       The date no further benefits are payable to the

     Participant under the Plan.

     SECTION 3.5         Ineligible for Personal Leave 

When an Eligible Employee becomes a Participant in the Plan, he or she will 

not be eligible to take a Personal Leave of Absence.

     SECTION 3.6         Family Leave Limitations 

When an Eligible Employee becomes a Participant in the Plan, he or she may

still apply for a Family Leave of Absence.  If an Eligible Employee is

granted such a leave to care for a seriously ill family member or in

connection with the birth of a child, his or her leave shall not extend

beyond his or her Termination Date.

                                       64
<PAGE>


SECTION 4 .    TERMINATION NOTICE PERIOD.    

     SECTION 4.1         Term of Termination Notice Period  

For each Participant, the Termination Notice Period is the period beginning 

on the Participant's Notification Date or such other plan participation date 

as may be provided in the Participant's written notification of his or her 

participation in the Plan as described in Section 3.2, and, subject to Sections

4.2 and 4.3, ending upon then earliest of the following dates:

          (a)       The Participant's Termination Date;

          (b)       The Participant's Early Termination Date;

          (c)       The date of the Participant's death;

          (d)       The date the Participant accepts an offer of employment

     with any member of the Employer Group.  If a Participant receives an

     offer of employment from any member of the Employer Group, the

     Participant must accept the offer before the end of the Termination

     Notice Period or the offer will be deemed to be rejected;

          (e)       The date the Participant's employment is terminated for

     any reason not related to the Company's decision to terminate the

     Participant because of business conditions (including, without

     limitation, the Participant's misuse of confidential or proprietary

     information or violations of the standards described in Apple's Global

     Ethics brochure or any other Apple policy or guideline; or

          (f)       Three months after the Participant's Notification Date

     or such other plan participation date as may be provided in the

     Participant's written notification of his or her participation in the

     Plan as described in Section 3.2.

                                       65
<PAGE>
     

SECTION 4.2         Suspension of Termination Notice Period 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1, a Participant's Termination 

Notice Period shall be suspended if and during such time as one of the 

following conditions exists:

          (a)       Disability.       The Participant is eligible

     to receive or is receiving disability benefits under an Apple

     Disability Plan.  (For this purpose, a Participant shall not be

     considered eligible to receive benefits under an Apple Disability Plan

     if he or she has failed to make timely application for such benefits

     following the onset of disability.)  If the Participant is released to

     return to work with the Company within two years of the date his or

     her disability leave begins, the suspension shall end on the effective

     date of such release and the Participant's Termination Notice Period

     will resume.  If the Participant is not released to return to work

     with the Company within two years of the date his or her disability

     leave begins, then the Termination Notice Period shall immediately end

     and the Participant will not be eligible to receive a Cash-Out Payment

     or Severance Benefits pursuant to Section 5.

          (b)       Temporary Assignment.      The Company, in its sole 

     discretion, determines that the Participant's services are required 

     in order to perform or complete an assignment.  Upon actual completion 

     of such a temporary assignment, the Participant's Termination Notice 

     Period shall resume.  The Participant's Termination Notice Period shall

     be suspended no more than six months under this Subsection (b); any 

     exceptions must be approved in advance by the Senior Vice President of 

     Human Resources or his or her designee.

                                       66
<PAGE>
          

     (c)       Restart.  The Participant is receiving benefits under the 

     Apple Restart Plan.  The Participant's Termination Notice period shall 

     be suspended for up to six weeks under this Subsection (c), provided 

     that the Participant became eligible for sabbatical benefits under the 

     Apple Restart Plan before or during the Termination Notice Period and 

     applied for and received approval of such sabbatical benefits before 

     his or her Termination Date.

     SECTION 4.3         Extension of Termination Notice Period Under Limited 

			 Circumstances.      

Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1, a Participant may request an 

extension of his or her Termination Notice Period for up to a maximum of 14 

additional calendar days.  A request for such an extension must be made to 

the Corporate Employee Relations Director and will be approved only if the 

following conditions are satisfied:

          (a)       The Participant first signs the Election and Release

     agreement described in Section 5.2 (and does not revoke such agreement

     during the seven days following its signing);

          (b)       The Participant agrees in writing to the adjustment

     described in Section 7.1;

          (c)       The extension sought is necessary and no longer than

     necessary:

               (i)       To allow the Participant to become vested in a

          stock option granted under the terms of the Apple Computer, Inc.

          1981 or 1990 Stock Option Plans;

               (ii)      To allow the Participant to become vested in the

          Apple Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan;

                                       67
<PAGE>
               

               (iii)     To allow the Participant to become vested in and

          eligible for a distribution from Apple's Profit Sharing Plan;

               (iv)      To enable the Participant to purchase stock under

          the Apple Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the purchase period in

          which the Participant's employment would otherwise terminate; or

               (v)       To enable the Participant to deal with

          circumstances that Apple determines in its sole discretion to be

          so extraordinary as to warrant an extension.  No extension shall

          be granted pursuant to this Section 4.3(c)(v) without the prior,

          written approval of the Participant's Division President or Vice

          President and the Senior Vice President of Human Resources.  In

          no event may an extension granted under this Section 4.3(c)(v),

          when added to extensions under Section 4.3(c)(i), (ii), (iii) or

          (iv), total more than 14 calendar days.

In no event shall any Participant who meets the eligibility requirements

for the Apple Restart Plan as a result of an extension pursuant to this

Section 4.3 be eligible to receive benefits under the Apple Restart Plan.

     SECTION 4.4         Continuation of Employment and Employee Benefits

			 During Termination Notice Period.     

A Participant will continue to be an Employee and to receive his or her 

Regular Salary for the Termination Notice Period, but he or she will not be 

required to perform any work for the Company.  The Participant's coverage 

under or participation in Apple's employee benefit plans or programs (if any)

shall also continue during the Termination Notice Period, but coverage as an 

Employee shall terminate at the end of the Termination Notice Period in 

accordance with Section 4.6.  During the Termination Notice Period the 

     

                                       68
<PAGE>


Participant will have access, as appropriate, to Apple's Career Resource 

Center, Company Store, Cupertino Fitness Center and Child Care Center, 

as long as those facilities remain in operation.

     SECTION 4.5         Additional Benefits During Termination Notice Period.

During the Termination Notice Period, a Participant may be eligible to receive 

certain job placement assistance or counseling, in accordance with procedures

established by Apple.  The availability of such assistance may vary depend

ing upon business conditions at the time of the termination, the Participant's 
 
job location and such other factors as may be determined by Apple in its sole 

discretion.

     SECTION 4.6         Termination of Employee Benefits at End of

			  Termination Notice Period.  

Except as otherwise required by law or as provided in Section 7.3 of the Plan,

a Participant's coverage under or participation in any of Apple's employee 

benefit plans or programs that continues during the Termination Notice Period 

pursuant to this Plan shall cease as of the close of the Participant's 

Termination Notice Period.

     

                                       69
<PAGE>


               SECTION 5 .    ELECTION TO RECEIVE SEVERANCE BENEFITS. 
                              

     SECTION 5.1         Availability of Severance Benefits 

A Participant may elect, subject to the requirements of Section 5.2, to 

receive a Severance Payment, a Prorated Bonus, if any, and/or Extended 

Benefit Coverage under the Plan; provided, however, that a Participant whose

employment is involuntarily terminated as described in Subsection 4.1(e) or 

who accepts another job with any member of the Employer Group during the 

Termination Notice Period shall not be eligible to elect such Severance 

Benefits.  The election to receive Severance Benefits must be made during 

the Termination Notice Period or within twelve months after the last day of 

the Participant's employment.

     SECTION 5.2         Must Sign Election and Release.     

No Participant shall be entitled to receive Severance Benefits under the 

Plan unless he or she first has properly completed and executed the Executive

Severance Plan Election and Release agreement provided to the Participant under 

the Plan, and does not revoke such agreement during the seven days following 

its signing.  The Election and Release agreement shall provide that execution

of such Election and Release agreement by the Participant will constitute a 

waiver and release of every claim the Participant might otherwise have against 

Apple, its subsidiaries, or any of their officers, directors or employees 

arising out of his or her employment or the termination of his or her 

employment with the Company.

     SECTION 5.3         Effect of Failure To Elect Severance Benefits

If a Participant fails to elect Severance Benefits by signing and returning 

the Election and Release agreement described in Section 5.2 to the Corporate

Employee Relations Director or the designee of such person during the period

                                       70
<PAGE>


described in Section 5.1, or if a Participant who has signed the Election

and Release agreement revokes it within seven days, such Participant shall

cease to be a Participant under the Plan.

                                       71
<PAGE>


               SECTION 6 .    CASH OUT PAYMENT.   

     SECTION 6.1         Availability of Cash Out Payment   

A Cash Out Payment shall be paid to a Participant who elects to terminate his

or her employment with the Company before the Participant's Termination Date;

provided, however, that a Participant whose employment is involuntarily 

terminated as described in Section 4.1(e) or who accepts another job with any

member of the Employer Group during the Termination Notice Period shall not 

be eligible for a Cash Out Payment.

     SECTION 6.2         Effect of Election To Receive a Cash Out Payment

If a Participant makes  the election described in Section 6.1, his or her 

Termination Notice Period shall end on the effective date of his or her 

termination of employment.  The benefits described in Section 4.4 shall cease

to be effective upon the termination of the Participant's Termination Notice 

Period.

     SECTION 6.3         Ineligible for Rehire    

In general, a Participant who receives a Cash Out Payment shall not be

eligible for rehire by any member of the Employer Group before 60 days

after his or her Termination Date.  Any exceptions must be approved by the

Division Senior Executive and the Division Human Resources Vice President

or Director.  If the Participant is rehired by the Company within 60 days

after his or her Termination Date, Apple, in its sole discretion, may

require the Participant to repay to Apple the entire amount of his or her

Severance Payment and Prorated Bonus, if any.  If the Participant is

rehired by theCompany prior to his or her Termination Date, Apple, in its sole

     

                                       72
<PAGE>


discretion, may require the Participant also to repay to Apple the entire

amount of his or her Cash Out payment.

     SECTION 6.4         Ineligible for Temporary or Contract Work.

A Participant shall not be eligible to work as a temporary employee or 

independent contractor for any member of the Employer Group before 60 days 

after his or her Termination Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no 

Participant may work as a temporary employee or independent contractor in 

the same position he or she held when his or her Layoff Notice Period 

commenced.

     

                                       73
<PAGE>


               SECTION 7 .    AMOUNT AND PAYMENT OF BENEFITS UNDER THE PLAN. 

     SECTION 7.1         Severance Payment   
The amount of Severance Payment payable to a Participant who elects to 

receive it pursuant to Section 5, shall be determined with reference to the

Participant's Termination Date and shall be equal to the number of Months

of Pay determined in accordance with the following table:

          Years of Service*        Months of Pay

           3 or less                          4
           4                                  5
           5                                  6
           6                                  7
           7                                  8
           8                                  9
           9                                 10
          10                                 11
          11 or more                         12 (maximum)


Partial years of service in excess of three years shall be prorated by full

month to determine a Participant's total Severance Payment.  A

Participant's Severance Payment shall be reduced by the compensation the

Participant received with respect to any period during which his or her

Termination Notice Period was extended pursuant to Section 4.3.

     SECTION 1.1         Prorated Bonus   

The amount of Prorated Bonus, if any, payable to a Participant who elects to

receive it pursuant to Section 5, shall be determined with reference to the

Participant's Termination Date and shall be equal to the Participant's

actual bonus under the Company's Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan or,

if applicable, the Participant's actual bonus prorated for the amount of

time from the beginning of Apple's fiscal year (generally, October 1) to

the Participant's Termination Date.  A Participant whose Termination Date falls

     

                                       74
<PAGE>


between the 1st and 14th day of any month shall receive a one-half-month

credit towards their bonus proration.   A Participant whose Notification

Date occurs during one fiscal year but whose Termination Date occurs in the

next fiscal year shall receive his or her actual bonus, if any, for the

first fiscal year and the prorated portion of his or her actual bonus, if

any, for the second fiscal year.

     SECTION 1.2         Extended Benefit Coverage     

A Participant who elects to receive Extended Benefit Coverage

pursuant to Section 5 shall be eligible to continue to receive the same

Company paid Medical and Dental coverages the Participant is receiving as

of his or her Termination Date or, if applicable, Early Termination Date,

extended as follows:


Participant's Grade Level       Period of Extended Company-Paid
 on Termination Date or          Coverage From Termination Date
 Early Termination Date             or Early Termination Date

          97-100                        12 Months

          94-96                          9 Months


Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant's period of extended Benefit

Coverage shall end if and when the Participant becomes eligible for similar

coverage through another employer, including the employer of the

Participant's spouse or Domestic Partner.  Each Participant shall be given

the opportunity to purchase continuing medical and dental coverage, as

required under section 602 of ERISA and section 4980B of the Code, prior to

the expiration of the Participant's current coverage or Extended Benefit

Coverage, if elected.

                                       75
<PAGE>
     

SECTION 1.1         Cash Out Payment     

The Cash Out Payment is an amount equal to the Regular Salary that the 

Participant would have been paid had the Participant remained employed by 

the Company until the Participant's Termination Date.

     SECTION 1.2         Offset for Amounts Owed.  

The Company reserves the right to deduct from any lump sum Severance

Benefit and/or Cash Out Payment payable to a Participant under the Plan any

and all amounts owed by the Participant to the Company, including but not

limited to overpayment of commissions or salary, unreimbursed cash, salary

and travel advances, taxes, amounts due to the Company Store for purchases

or Loan to Own Equipment, Custom Coverage, any other employee benefit plan

deductions, and any unpaid loans.

     SECTION 1.3         Time of Payment of Benefits Under the Plan   


	(a)       Payment Before Termination    

No Participant shall be entitled to receive a Cash Out Payment under the

Plan before the last day of his or her employment with the Company.  No

Participant shall be entitled to receive a Severance Payment, Prorated

Bonus or Extended Benefit Coverage under the Plan until his or her

employment with the Company has terminated and until the eighth day after

the Participant has signed the Election and Release Agreement pursuant to

Section 5.2, provided that the Participant has not subsequently revoked

such agreement.

     (b)       Form and Time of Payment.

A Participant's Severance Payment and Cash Out Payment, if any, shall be paid

as soon as reasonably practicable after the Participant's termination of

employment.  A Participant's Prorated Bonus, if any, shall be paid at or

about the time that bonus payments are made to active employees who are

eligible to receive bonuses under the Company's Senior/Executive Incentive

Bonus Plan for the same year for which the Prorated Bonus is paid.  The

Company shall withhold appropriate federal, state and local income and

employment taxes and shall make all applicable employee benefit plan and

other deductions from any payments under the Plan; provided, however, that

the Company shall not make Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan

deductions from any Plan payments.

     SECTION 1.4         Death.       

If a Participant dies before his or her participation has terminated pursuant

to Section 3.4, any Severance Payment, Prorated Bonus or Cash Out Payment to 

which the Participant would have been entitled under the Plan had the 

Participant voluntarily terminated employment with the Company on the date of

his or her death shall be paid to the Participant's surviving spouse, or if 

there is no surviving spouse, to the Participant's designated beneficiary 

under Apple's group term life insurance plan, or if there is no such 

designated beneficiary, to the Participant's estate.  Such Payments shall be 

made at the time and in the form determined pursuant to Section 7.6(b) and 

shall be made regardless of whether the Participant has signed an Election 

and Release.  Extended Benefit Coverage will continue to be provided to the

Participant's surviving eligible dependents in accordance with the terms of

the Participant's coverage and Section 7.3.

     

                                       76
<PAGE>


SECTION 2 .    SOURCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXPENSES.   

     SECTION 2.1         Source of Benefits  

Any benefit payable under the Plan shall be unfunded and payable only from

Apple's general assets.

     SECTION 2.2         Expenses.  

The expenses of operating and administering the Plan shall be borne entirely 

by Apple.

     

                                       77
<PAGE>


SECTION 3 .    ADMINISTRATION AND PLAN FIDUCIARIES.   

     SECTION 3.1         Plan Sponsor and Administrator     

Apple is the "plan sponsor" and the "administrator" of the Plan, within the 

meaning of ERISA.

     SECTION 3.2         Administrative Responsibilities    

Apple shall be the named fiduciary with the power and sole discretion to 

determine who is eligible for benefits under the Plan, to interpret the Plan 

and to prescribe such forms, make such rules, regulations and computations 

and prescribe such guidelines as it may determine are necessary or appropriate 

for the operation and administration of the Plan, to change the terms of such

rules, regulations or guidelines, and to rescind such rules, regulations or 

guidelines.  Such determinations of eligibility, rules, regulations, 

interpretations, computations and guidelines shall be conclusive and binding 

upon all persons.  In administering the Plan, Apple shall at all times 

discharge its duties with respect to the Plan in accordance with the standards 

set forth in section 404(a)(1) of ERISA.

     SECTION 3.3         Allocation and Delegation of Responsibilities

Apple may allocate any of its responsibilities for the operation and 

administration of the Plan among its officers, employees and agents.  

It may also delegate any of its responsibilities under the Plan by 

designating, in writing, another person to carry out such responsibilities. 

Any such written delegation shall become effective when executed by Apple's 

Corporate Employee Relations Manager or his or her designee, and the 

designated person shall then be responsible for carrying out the 

responsibilities described in such writing.

     

                                       78
<PAGE>
     

SECTION 3.4         No Individual Liability.

It is declared to be the express purpose and intent of Apple that no

individual liability shall attach to or be incurred by any member of the

Board of Directors of Apple, by any officer of Apple, or by any employee,

representative or agent of Apple, under, or by reason of the operation of,

the Plan.

                                       79
<PAGE>


                SECTION 4  .    CLAIMS AND APPEALS.     

     SECTION 4.1         Claims for Benefits 

A Participant shall be entitled to receive his or her benefits under the Plan

upon filing with the Company the applicable documents as prescribed by

Apple.  Any Participant (or the surviving spouse or duly authorized

representative of a deceased Participant) who believes himself or herself

to be entitled to receive benefits that are different from the benefits

that he or she has received or who believes that he or she has a claim to

other relief arising out of the Company's decision to terminate the

Participant may make a claim for benefits or such other relief under this

Section 10.1.  Such claim should be directed to the Participant's Division

President or to the Division Vice President or Director of Human Resources.

Apple's Corporate Employee Relations Director or his or her designee shall

exercise oversight responsibility with respect to the claims and appeal

processes.

           (a)      Time Limits for Submission of Initial Claim  

     No claim by a Participant (or by the surviving spouse or duly authorized

     representative of a deceased Participant) shall be valid unless it is 

     made immediately and in no event later than 60 days following the receipt 

     of the disputed benefit, a denial of a benefit or, in the case of a claim 

     to other relief arising out of the Company's decision to terminate the

     Participant, the date on which the Participant's employment terminated.

           (b)      Time Limits for Decision on Initial Claim    

     If any claim is denied, in whole or in part, notice of such denial shall 

     be given to the claimant in writing within 90 days, except that if special 

     circumstances require that the time for consideration of the claim be 

           

                                       80
<PAGE>
     

     extended, notice of the extension shall be given in writing within 90 

     days, and notice of such denial shall thereafter be given within 180 days.

     Each period of 90 or 180 days referred to in the preceding sentence shall 

     begin to run on the day the claim is received by the Participant's 

     Division President or the Division Vice President or Director of Human

     Resources.  A written notice of denial shall set forth, in a manner

     calculated to be understood by the claimant, specific reasons for the

     denial, specific references to the relevant Plan provisions on which

     it is based, a description of any information or material necessary to

     perfect the claim, an explanation of why such material is necessary

     and an explanation of the Plan's review procedure.  A notice that

     additional time is necessary for consideration of a claim shall

     indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and

     the date by which Apple expects to render its decision on the claim.

           (c)      Deemed Denial  

     If written notice of the denial of a claim for benefits or of the fact 

     that an extension of time is necessary for processing the claim is not 

     furnished within the time period specified in Section 10.1(b), the claim

     shall be deemed to have been denied, and the claimant shall be permitted

     to appeal such denial in accordance with the review procedure set forth 

     in Section 10.2.

                                       81
<PAGE>
     

SECTION 4.2         Review of Denied Claims  

     (a)        Request for Review.

A claimant whose application for benefits is denied in whole or in part, or 

the claimant's duly authorized representative, may appeal from the denial by

submitting to Apple's Senior Vice President of Human Resources or his or her 

designee a request for a review of the application within 90 days after 

receiving written notice of the denial from Apple.  Upon the request of a 

Claimant or his or her representative, Apple shall give the claimant or the

representative an opportunity to review pertinent materials that pertain to

his or her plan benefits, other than legally privileged documents, in

preparing the request for a review.  The request for a review shall be in

writing and sent to the address set forth in the Summary Plan Description

distributed to Participants or in later Plan information.  The request for

a review shall set forth all of the grounds on which it is based, all facts

in support of the request and any other matters which the claimant deems

pertinent.  The Senior Vice President of Human Resources or designee may

require the claimant to submit such additional facts, documents or other

material as he or she  may deem necessary or appropriate in making his or

her review.

     (b)        Decision on Review.  

The Senior Vice President of Human Resources or his or her designee shall 

act on each request for a review within 60 days after receipt, unless special

circumstances require further time for processing and the claimant is

advised of the extension.  In no event shall the decision on review be

rendered more than 120 days after the Senior Vice President of Human

Resources or designeereceives the request for a review.  The Senior Vice 

     

                                       82
<PAGE>


President of Human Resources or designee shall give prompt, written notice of

his or her decision to the claimant and to Apple.  In the event that the 

Senior Vice President of Human Resources or his or her designee confirms the

denial of the application for benefits in whole or in part, the notice shall 

set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the

specific reasons for the decision and specific references to the relevant

Plan provisions on which the decision is based.

     (c)        Rules and Interpretations    

The Corporate Employer Relations Director and Senior Vice President of

Human Resources shall adopt such rules, procedures and interpretations of

the Plan as they deem necessary or appropriate in carrying out their

responsibilities under this Section 10.

     SECTION 4.3         Exhaustion of Remedies   

Decisions of the Senior Vice President of Human Resources or his or her

designee shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.  No legal action

for benefits under the Plan or arising out of the Company's decision to

terminate the Participant shall be brought unless and until the claimant

(i) has submitted a claim in accordance with Section 10.1, (ii) has been

notified by Apple that the claim is denied or the claim is deemed to be

denied under Section 10.1(c), (iii) has filed a written request for review

of the claim in accordance with Section 10.2, and (iv) has been notified in

writing that the Senior Vice President of Human Resources or his or her

designee has affirmed the denial of the claim; provided that legal action

may be brought after Apple has failed to take any action on the claim

within the time prescribed by Sections 10.1(b) and 10.2(c) above,

respectively.

     

                                       83
<PAGE>


                

SECTION 5  .    GENERAL PROVISIONS.     

     SECTION 5.1         Legal Construction of the Plan     

  The Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA.

     SECTION 5.2         Relation of the Plan to Other Employee Benefit Plans

Except as provided in Section 1.3, the benefits provided under the Plan shall 

be provided in addition to, and not in place of, any other benefit to which a

Participant is or may be entitled under the terms of any other employee

benefit plan established or maintained by Apple.  The terms of this Plan

shall not be construed to change, amend or modify the terms of any other

such employee benefit plan.  No term of any other employee benefit plan

shall be construed to change, amend or modify any term of this Plan.

     SECTION 5.3         No Rights Created or Accrued  

Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as creating a contract of

employment or as giving to an employee or agent of the Company a right to

receive any benefit other than the benefits specifically provided under the

terms of the Plan or a right to continue in the employment of the Company.

Nothing in the Plan shall be construed to limit in any manner the right of

the Company to discharge, demote, reclassify, transfer, relocate, or in any

other manner treat or deal with any person in its employ, including,

without limitation, any person who might otherwise have become (or

remained) a Participant in the Plan absent such treatment or dealing, which

right is hereby reserved.  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to

change the at-will nature of the Participant's employment.  No benefits

shall be deemed to

     

                                       84
<PAGE>


accrue under the Plan at any time except the time at which they become

payable under the Plan, and no right to a benefit under the Plan (other

than the benefits under any employee benefit plans or programs in which the

Participant continues to participate pursuant to Section 4.4) shall be

deemed to vest prior to the termination of the Participant's employment.

     SECTION 5.4         Relation of the Plan to Descriptive Matter

The Plan shall contain no terms or provisions except those set forth herein,

or as hereafter amended in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.  

The provisions of the Plan shall control, and any description made in any 

other document shall not control, if ever any such description is deemed 

to be in conflict with any provision of the Plan.

     SECTION 5.5         Non-alienation of Benefits    

No benefits payable under the Plan shall be subject to anticipation, 

alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance, 

and any attempt to do so shall be void.

     

                                       85
<PAGE>


                SECTION 6  .    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.   

     SECTION 6.1         Amendment.   

Apple may amend the Plan at any time, by a written instrument executed 

by Apple's Senior Vice President of Human Resources.

     SECTION 6.2         Termination.  

Apple may terminate the Plan, at any time and for any reason, by a written 

instrument executed by Apple's Senior Vice President of Human Resources.

     SECTION 6.3         Effect of Amendment or Termination.  

If a Participant's employment has terminated and the Participant is entitled 

to receive benefits under the Plan, no amendment to the Plan, and no 

termination of the Plan, shall thereafter operate to diminish or eliminate 

such Participant's entitlement to such benefits.

     

                                       86
<PAGE>


                SECTION 7  .    EXECUTION.    

     To record the amendment and restatement of the Plan effective as of

January 15, 1996, Apple's Senior Vice President of Human Resources has

executed this document this 13th day of January, 1996.

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.



                              By_/s/_Kevin J. Sullivan_____
                                      Kevin J. Sullivan
                                    Senior Vice President
                                       Human Resources

                                       87
<PAGE>
                                        

                                SUPPLEMENT TO THE

                  APPLE COMPUTER, INC. EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN

                            (Effective June 9, 1995)

                                        

                                        

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.



     This Supplement (the "Supplement") to the Apple Computer, Inc.

Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan") is hereby established effective as of

the date it is approved by the Board of Directors of Apple (the "Board").

The purpose of this Supplement is to set forth the terms and provisions of

the Plan that will apply in the event of a Change in Control of Apple.

Capitalized words not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings

assigned to such words in the Plan.



SECTION 2.  ADDITIONAL BENEFITS.



     (a)   Each Eligible Employee (i) whose employment with the Company is

involuntary terminated by the Company for any reason during the Supplement

Term, other than due to such Employee's misuse of confidential or

proprietary information or a violation of the standards described in

Apple's Global Ethics brochure or any other Apple policy or guideline or

(ii) who resigns during the Supplement Term for Good Reason shall

automatically become a Participant, whether or not such person is

designated as a Participant in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan

(hereinafter, a "Section 2(a) Participant"); provided, however, that no

Eligible Employee described in



                                       88
<PAGE>


Section 3.3(c), (d), (e) or (f), or an Eligible Employee described in

Section 3.3(b) who resigns other than for Good Reason, shall become a

Section 2(a) Participant.  In addition, during the Supplement Term, the

definition of "Eligible Employee" in the Plan is revised to exclude

reference to "any other plan, program or practice by which Apple provides

any separation allowance" which is established on or after the Change in

Control Date or which is implemented at any time with the intention,

express or implied, of eliminating Apple's obligations under the Plan or

this Supplement.  Employees of the Company who are otherwise Eligible

Employees and who are parties to a Retention Agreement shall continue to be

eligible to be designated as Participants in the Plan if their employment

terminates prior to the Change in Control Date or after the expiration of

the term of their Retention Agreement.



     (b)   Section 4.1(e) of the Plan is revised to prohibit the Company

from ending the Termination Notice Period for any such Termination Notice

Period that begins within the Supplement Term for any reason other than the

Section 2(a) Participant's misuse of confidential or proprietary

information or a violation of the standards described in Apple's Global

Ethics brochure or any other Apple policy or guideline.



     (c)   Section 4.3 of the Plan is revised to substitute "30 additional

calendar days" for "14 additional calendar days" for any Termination Notice

Period that begins during the Supplemental Term.



                                       89
<PAGE>


     (d)   Section 4.5 of the Plan is revised to require the Company to

provide job placement assistance or counseling to each Section 2(a)

Participant who requests such assistance; provided, however, that the

individual Participant cost to Apple of providing such benefits to a

Section 2(a) Participant need not exceed $7,500.



     (e)   Section 7.1 of the Plan is revised for each Section 2(a)

Participant as follows:



           Years of Service*       Months of Pay



           3 or less                      8

           4                             10

           5                             12

           6                             14

           7                             16

           8                             18

           9                             20

           10                            22

           11 or more               24 (maximum)

           _____________

           *    Years of Service will be determined as of the Participant's

                Termination Date.



                                       90
<PAGE>


     (f)   Section 7.2 of the Plan is revised for each Section 2(a)

Participant as follows: In lieu of the Prorated Bonus, each Section 2(a)

Participant shall receive a special severance bonus (the "Severance Bonus")

equal to the greater of (i) the target annual bonus amount payable to the

Section 2(a) Participant for the fiscal year in which the Notification Date

occurs, or (ii) the target annual bonus amount payable to the Section 2(a)

Participant for the last fiscal year ended prior to the Change in Control

Date, in either case, calculated on the assumption that all applicable

performance targets had been achieved.  The Severance Bonus shall not be

subject to any proration and shall otherwise be payable at such time and

manner as the Prorated Bonus.

     (g)   Section 7.3 of the Plan is revised for each Section 2(a)

Participant as follows:



Participant's Grade Level     Period of Extended Coverage from
 on Termination Date or              Termination Date or
 Early Termination Date            Early Termination Date

        97-100                           24 months
        94-96                            18 months

     (h)   The additional payments and benefits provided by this Section 2

of the Supplement are subject to the condition that the Section 2(a)

Participant execute a release in the form and manner contemplated by

Section 5.2 of the Plan.



                                       91
<PAGE>


SECTION 3.  GROSS-UP PAYMENT.



     A new Section 7.8 is added to the Plan as follows:



     7.8   Gross-Up Payment.



     (a)   Right to Payment.  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or the

Supplement to the contrary, if it is determined that any Payment to an

Eligible Employee (whether or not such employee qualifies for benefits

under the Plan or the Supplement and whether or not such employee is a

Section 2(a) Participant at the time of determination) would be subject to

the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or

penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with

any interest or penalties thereon, is herein referred to as an "Excise

Tax"), then such Eligible Employee shall be entitled to an additional

payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount that will place such Eligible

Employee in the same after-tax economic position that such employee would

have enjoyed if the Excise Tax had not applied to the Payment.  The amount

of the Gross-Up Payment shall be determined by the Accounting Firm in

accordance with the formula {(E x (1 - M)/(1 - T)) - E} (or such other

formula as the Accounting Firm deems appropriate which is intended to

achieve the same result), where



     E     equals the Payments which are determined to be "excess parachute

           payments" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code;



                                       92
<PAGE>


     M     equals the sum of the highest marginal rates1 for Taxes

           applicable to the Eligible Employee at the time of the Payment;

           and



     T     equals M plus the rate of Excise Tax applicable to the Payment.



No Gross-Up Payments shall be payable to an Eligible Employee hereunder if

the Accounting Firm determines that the Payments to such Eligible Employee

are not subject to an Excise Tax.



     (b)   Determination of Gross-Up Payment.  Subject to the provisions of

Section 7.8(c), all determinations required under this Section 7.8,

including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of the

Payments constituting excess parachute payments, and the amount of the

Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm, which shall provide

detailed supporting calculations both to the Eligible Employee and the

Company within fifteen days of the Change in Control Date, the date of the

Eligible Employee's termination of employment with the Company and its

subsidiaries or any other date reasonably requested by the Eligible

Employee or the Company on which a determination under this Section 3 is

necessary or advisable.  The Company shall pay each Eligible Employee the

initial Gross-Up Payment within 5 days of the receipt by the Company of the

Accounting Firm's determination.  If the Accounting Firm determines that no

Excise Tax is payable to an Eligible Employee (or class of Eligible

Employees), the Company shall cause



                                       93
<PAGE>


the Accounting Firm to provide such Eligible Employee (or each member of

the class of Eligible Employees) with an opinion that the Accounting Firm

has substantial authority under the Code and Regulations not to report an

Excise Tax on the Eligible Employee's federal income tax return.  Any

determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Eligible

Employee and the Company.  If the initial Gross-Up Payment is insufficient

to cover the amount of the Excise Tax that is ultimately determined to be

owing by the Eligible Employee with respect to any Payment (hereinafter an

"Underpayment"), the Company, after exhausting its remedies under Section

7.8(c) below, shall promptly pay to the Eligible Employee an additional

Gross-Up Payment in respect of the Underpayment.



     (c)   Procedures.  As a condition to Apple's obligations hereunder to

an Eligible Employee, each Eligible Employee shall be required to notify

Apple in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if

successful, would require the payment by Apple of a Gross-Up Payment by

such Eligible Employee.  Such notice shall be given as soon as practicable

after the Eligible Employee knows of such claim and shall apprise Apple of

the nature of the claim and the date on which the claim is requested to be

paid.  An Eligible Employee shall agree not to pay the claim until the

expiration of the thirty-day period following the date on which the

Eligible Employee notifies Apple, or such shorter period ending on the date

the Taxes with respect to such claim are due (the "Notice Period").  If

Apple notifies the Eligible Employee in writing prior to the expiration of

the Notice Period that it desires to contest the claim, the Eligible

Employee shall:  (i) give Apple any information reasonably requested by

Apple relating to the claim;



                                       94
<PAGE>


(ii) take such action in connection with the claim as Apple may reasonably

request, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with

respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by Apple and

reasonably acceptable to the Eligible Employee; (iii) cooperate with Apple

in good faith in contesting the claim; and (iv) permit Apple to participate

in any proceedings relating to the claim.  An Eligible Employee shall

permit Apple to control all proceedings related to the claim and, at its

option, permit Apple to pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals,

proceedings, hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect

of such claim.  If requested by Apple, an Eligible Employee shall agree

either to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in

any permissible manner and to prosecute such contest to a determination

before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and

in one or more appellate courts as Apple shall determine; provided,

however, that, if Apple directs such Eligible Employee to pay such claim

and pursue a refund, Apple shall advance the amount of such payment to the

Eligible Employee on an after-tax and interest-free basis (the "Advance").

Apple's control of the contest related to the claim shall be limited to the

issues related to the Gross-Up Payment and the Eligible Employee shall be

entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issues raised

by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority.  If Apple does

not notify the Eligible Employee in writing prior to the end of the Notice

Period of its desire to contest the claim, Apple shall pay to the Eligible

Employee an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of the excess parachute

payments that are the subject of the claim, and the Eligible Employee shall

be required to pay the amount of the Excise Tax that is the subject of the

claim to the applicable taxing authority in accordance with applicable law.



                                       95
<PAGE>


     (d)   Repayments.  If, after receipt by an Eligible Employee of an

Advance, the Eligible Employee becomes entitled to a refund with respect to

the claim to which such Advance relates, the Eligible Employee shall pay

Apple the amount of the refund (together with any interest paid or credited

thereon after Taxes applicable thereto).  If, after receipt by Eligible

Employee of an Advance, a determination is made that the Eligible Employee

shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to the claim and Apple

does not promptly notify the Eligible Employee of its intent to contest the

denial of refund, then the amount of the Advance shall not be required to

be repaid by Eligible Employee and the amount thereof shall offset the

amount of the additional Gross-Up Payment then owing to the Eligible

Employee.



     (e)   Further Assurances.  Apple shall indemnify each Eligible

Employee and hold each Eligible Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis,

from any costs, expenses, penalties, fines, interest or other liabilities

("Losses") incurred by the Eligible Employee with respect to the exercise

by Apple of any of its rights under this Section 7.8, including, without

limitation, any Losses related to Apple's decision to contest a claim or

any imputed income to the Eligible Employee resulting from any Advance or

action taken on the Eligible Employee's behalf by Apple hereunder.  Apple

shall pay all legal fees and expenses incurred under this Section 7.8, and

shall promptly reimburse each Eligible Employee for the reasonable expenses

incurred by the Eligible Employee in connection with any actions taken by

Apple or required to be taken by the Eligible Employee hereunder.  Apple

shall also pay all of the fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm,

including, without limitation, the fees and expenses related to the opinion

referred to in Section 7.8(b).



                                       96
<PAGE>


     (f)   Combined Payments.  Anything in this Section 7.8 to the contrary

notwithstanding, Apple shall have no obligation to pay an Eligible Employee

a required Gross-Up Payment under this Section 7.8 if the aggregate amount

of all Combined Payments has at the time such payment is due exceeded the

Limit.  If the amount of a Gross-Up Payment to an Eligible Employee under

this Section 7.8 would result in the Combined Payments exceeding the Limit,

Apple shall pay the Eligible Employee the portion, if any, of the Gross-Up

Payment which can be paid to such employee without causing the aggregate

amount of all Combined Payments to exceed the Limit.  In the event that an

Eligible Employee is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment under this Section 7.8

and other employees or former employees of the Company are also entitled to

gross-up payments under this Section 7.8 or under the corresponding

provisions of any other applicable Combined Arrangement and the aggregate

amount of all such payments would cause the Limit on Combined Payments to

be exceeded, Apple shall allocate the amount of the reduction necessary to

comply with the Limit among all such payments in the proportion that the

amount of each such gross-up payment bears to the aggregate amount of all

such payments.  Nothing in this Section 7.8(f) shall require any Eligible

Employee to repay to Apple any amount that was previously paid to such

employee under this Section 7.8.



                                       97
<PAGE>


SECTION 4.  AMENDMENT AND ASSUMPTION.



     (a)   Section 12.1 of the Plan is revised as follows:  The Plan and

this Supplement may not be amended or terminated by Apple on and after the

occurrence of the Change in Control Date in any way that would reduce or

eliminate the payments and benefits owing under the Plan and this

Supplement to any Section 2(a) Participant.  In addition, no amendment or

termination which would be precluded under the previous sentence if made on

or after the Change in Control Date shall be effective if made or first

effective within the twelve month period ending on the Change in Control

Date.



     (b)   Apple will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by

purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all

of the business or assets of Apple expressly to assume and to agree to

perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Apple

would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place;

provided, however, that no such assumption shall relieve Apple of its

obligations hereunder.



SECTION 5.  DEFINITIONS.



     For purposes of the Plan and this Supplement, the following

capitalized words shall have the meanings set forth below:



     "Accounting Firm" shall mean Ernst & Young or, if such firm is unable

or unwilling to perform such calculations, such other national accounting

firm as shall be designated by Apple in accordance with the terms of the

Retention Agreements.

                                       98
<PAGE>


     "Change in Control" shall mean a change in control of Apple of a

nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of

Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether

or not Apple is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided,

however, that, anything in the Plan or this Supplement to the contrary

notwithstanding, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:



           (i)  any individual, partnership, firm, corporation,

     association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity or

     person, or any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section

     14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as

     defined in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the

     Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Apple

     representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of Apple's then

     outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors

     of Apple;



           (ii)  during any period of two (2) consecutive years (not

     including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement),

     individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board

     and any new directors, whose election by the Board or nomination for

     election by Apple's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least

     three-fourths (3/4ths) of the directors then still in office who

     either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election

     or nomination for election was previously so approved (the "Incumbent

     Directors"), cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof;



                                       99
<PAGE>


           (iii)  there occurs a reorganization, merger, consolidation or

     other corporate transaction involving the Company (a "Transaction"),

     in each case, with respect to which the stockholders of the Company

     immediately prior to such Transaction do not, immediately after the

     Transaction, own more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of

     the Company or other corporation resulting from such Transaction;



           (iv)  all or substantially all of the assets of Apple are sold,

     liquidated or distributed; or



           (v)  there is a "change in control" of Apple within the meaning

     of Section 280G of the Code and the Regulations.



     "Change in Control Date" shall mean the earliest of (i) the date on

which the Change in Control occurs, (ii) the date on which Apple executes

an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a

Change in Control, (iii) the date the Board approves a transaction or

series of transactions, the consummation of which would result in a Change

in Control and (iv) the date Apple fails to satisfy its obligations to have

the Plan and this Supplement assumed by any successor to Apple in

accordance with Section 4(b) of this Supplement.  If the Change in Control

Date occurs as a result of an agreement described in clause (ii) of the

previous sentence or as a result of the approval of the Board described in

clause (iii) of the previous sentence and the Change in Control to which

such agreement or approval relates (the "Contemplated Change in Control")

subsequently does not



                                       100
<PAGE>


occur, then the Supplement Term shall expire on the sixtieth day (the

"Reset Date") following the date the Board certifies by resolution duly

adopted by three-fourths (3/4ths) of the Incumbent Directors then in office

that the Contemplated Change in Control is not reasonably likely to occur;

provided, however, that this sentence shall not apply (A) to any Section

2(a) Participant whose termination of employment with Apple has occurred on

and after the Change in Control Date and on or prior to the Reset Date or

(B) if the Contemplated Change in Control subsequently occurs within three

months of the Reset Date.  Following the Reset Date, the provisions of the

Plan and this Supplement shall remain in effect and a new Supplement Term

shall commence upon the occurrence of a subsequent Change in Control Date.

Notwithstanding the first sentence of this section, if an individual's

employment with the Company terminates prior to the Change in Control Date

and it is reasonably demonstrated that such termination of employment (i)

was at the request of the third party who has taken steps reasonably

calculated to effect the Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in

connection with or in anticipation of the Change in Control, then, solely

with respect to the affected Participant, the Change in Control Date shall

mean the date immediately prior to the date of such Participant's

termination of employment.



     "Combined Arrangements" shall mean this Supplement to the Plan (as the

same may be amended from time to time) and the Retention Agreements.



                                       101
<PAGE>


     "Combined Payments" shall mean the aggregate cash amount of (i)

severance payments made to employees or former employees under Section 3(a)

of the Retention Agreements or the corresponding provisions of the

applicable Combined Arrangement, (ii) severance payments made to Section

2(a) Participants under Sections 2(e) and 2(f) of the Supplement or to any

other employee or former employee under the corresponding provisions of the

applicable Combined Arrangement, (iii) Gross-up Payments made to an

Eligible Employee under Section 3 of the Supplement or to any other

employee or former employee under the corresponding provisions of the

applicable Combined Arrangement, (iv) fees and expenses which are paid or

reimbursed to employees or former employees under Section 6 of the

Retention Agreements or to any other employee or former employee under the

corresponding provisions of the applicable Combined Arrangement, (v)

payments made to employees or former employees under Section 5 of the

Retention Agreements or to any other employee or former employee under the

corresponding provisions of the applicable Combined Arrangement and (vi)

costs incurred by Apple in respect of a Section 2(a) Participant under

Section 2(d) of the Supplement or to any other employee or former employee

under the corresponding provisions of the applicable Combined Arrangement.



     "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and

any successor provisions thereto.



     "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of Apple.



     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as

amended, and any successor provisions thereto.



                                       102
<PAGE>


     "Good Reason" shall mean:



           (i)  The relocation of the office of the Company where an

     Eligible Employee is employed immediately prior to the Change in

     Control Date (the "CIC Location") to a location which is more than

     fifty (50) miles away from the CIC Location or the Company's requiring

     an Eligible Employee to be based more than fifty (50) miles away from

     the CIC Location (except for required travel on the Company's business

     to an extent substantially consistent with the Eligible Employee's

     customary business travel obligations in the ordinary course of

     business prior to the Change in Control Date); or



           (ii)  The Company's assignment of an Eligible Employee to a job

     with significantly reduced duties and responsibilities and which

     involves either (A) a reduction in the Eligible Employee's base salary

     or target bonus opportunity or (B) a drop of two grade designations or

     more; provided, however, that clause (B) shall not apply if the

     reduction in employee's grade designation causes such employee to

     cease to qualify as an Eligible Employee for purposes of the Plan and

     this Supplement;



provided, however, that an event described above shall not constitute Good

Reason unless it is communicated by the Eligible Employee to the Company in

writing and is not corrected by the Company in a manner which is reasonably

satisfactory to the Eligible Employee (including full retroactive

correction with respect to any monetary matter) within 10 days of the

Company's receipt of such written notice.

                                       103
<PAGE>


     "Limit" shall mean the dollar amount determined in accordance with the

formula [A x B x C], where



     A     equals 0.02;



     B     equals the number of issued and outstanding shares of Common

           Stock of Apple immediately prior to the Change in Control Date;

           and



     C     equals the greater of (i) (A) if the Common Stock is listed on

           any established stock exchange or national market system

           (including, without limitation, the National Market System of

           the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated

           Quotation ("NASDAQ") System, the highest closing sale price (or

           closing bid price, if no sales are reported) of a share of

           Common Stock, or (B) if the Common Stock is regularly quoted on

           the NASDAQ System (but not on a national market system) or

           quoted by a recognized securities dealer but selling prices are

           not reported, the highest mean between the high and low asked

           prices for the Common Stock, in each case, on any day during the

           ninety-day period ending on the Change in Control Date, and (ii)

           the highest price paid or offered, as determined by the

           Accounting Firm, in any bona fide transaction or bona fide offer

           related to the Change in Control.



                                       104
<PAGE>


     "Notification Date" shall mean, during the Supplement Term, the date

an Eligible Employee is notified of his or her termination of employment or

the end of the date on which the cure period referred to in the definition

of Good Reason expires without the Company effecting the cure contemplated

by such definition.



     "Payment" means (i) any amount due or paid to an Eligible Employee

under the Plan or this Supplement, (ii) any amount that is due or paid to

an Eligible Employee under any plan, program or arrangement of the Company,

and (iii) any amount or benefit that is due or payable to an Eligible

Employee under the Plan or this Supplement or under any plan, program or

arrangement of the Company not otherwise covered under clause (i) or (ii)

hereof which must reasonably be taken into account under Section 280G of

the Code and the Regulations in determining the amount of the "parachute

payments" received by the Eligible Employee, including, without limitation,

any amounts which must be taken into account under the Code and Regulations

as a result of (A) the acceleration of the vesting of any option,

restricted stock or other equity award granted under Apple's equity-based

incentive plans or otherwise, (B) the acceleration of the time at which any

payment or benefit is receivable by an Eligible Employee or (C) any

contingent severance or other amounts that are payable to an Eligible

Employee.



     "Regulations" shall mean the proposed, temporary and final regulations

under Section 280G of the Code or any successor provision thereto.



                                       105
<PAGE>


     "Retention Agreements" means the Retention Agreements, dated as of the

date of this Supplement, to which Apple is a party and any Retention

Agreement entered into after the date hereof which is specifically

designated in the terms thereof as one of the Combined Arrangements.



     "Supplement Term" shall mean the period commencing on the Change in

Control Date and ending on the second anniversary thereof.



     "Transaction Date" shall mean the date described in clause (i) of the

definition of Change in Control Date.

_______________________________
*    Years of Service will be determined as of the Participant's Termination
Date.

1    To be expressed in up to three decimal places.  For example, a combined
federal, state and local marginal rate of 56% would be expressed as .560.

					106
<PAGE>
                                        

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 10.A.23
                              Separation Agreement

      In  consideration  of the mutual agreements set forth  below,  Daniel
Eilers ("Eilers") and Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple") agree to the following
terms and conditions of this Separation Agreement (the "Agreement"):

      1.    Nature  of  Business.  Apple is in the business  of  designing,
developing,  producing,  selling and marketing  computer  systems,  related
products  and  services.  The business practices of Apple  and  the  market
conditions  in which Apple operates change rapidly and these  changes  have
necessitated    prompt    changes   in   management,    and/or    managers'
responsibilities.  These changes are needed from time to time in  the  high
level  management  positions  such  as those  for  which  Eilers  has  been
employed.

      2.    Resignation from Office and Rescission of Retention  Agreement.
Employee  shall  resign from his position as Senior Vice  President,  World
Wide  Marketing & Customer Solutions of Apple, effective as of December  1,
1995.  Eilers hereby resigns from all other positions he holds on behalf of
Apple,  its  subsidiaries and affiliates effective as of December  1,  1995
(except as an employee), which positions are set forth at Exhibit A hereto.
Eilers  agrees to sign all appropriate and mutually agreeable documentation
prepared by Apple to facilitate these resignations.

      Eilers  and Apple agree that in exchange for the terms and conditions
of  this Agreement, the June 9, 1995 Retention Agreement between Eilers and
Apple,   a  copy  of  which  is attached hereto as  Exhibit  B,  is  hereby
rescinded  and  that  neither party has any further rights  or  obligations
under the Retention Agreement.
                                       107
<PAGE>


      3.     Employment Status/Termination.  Subject to paragraph 11 below,
from  the  date  of  this Agreement through February 1, 1996  ("Termination
Date")  or  such earlier date as a result of an event under  paragraph  11,
Eilers will continue to devote his best efforts to Apple and will remain an
employee  of and fiduciary to Apple reporting to Edward B. Stead.   On  and
after  December 1, 1995, Eilers will not be required to perform any  duties
for  or  on behalf of Apple.  Until Termination Date, Eilers shall continue
to  receive  his regular salary and receive full employee benefits.   Apple
will  designate Eilers as a participant in Apple's Executive Severance Plan
("Plan"), on or about December 1, 1995, and Eilers will become eligible  to
receive the appropriate compensation and benefits under that Plan valued as
of February 1, 1996.

     4.   Compensation and Benefits Upon Termination.  Subject to paragraph
11 below, at or before Termination Date, Apple will pay the following:

           a.    Severance  Payments.  Under this Agreement and  the  Plan,
Eilers  is  eligible to receive a lump sum severance payment  based  on  13
years  and  6  months  of  employment  and  a  proration  of  his  FY   '96
Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan ("Bonus Plan"), less deductions,  and
a  payout  of  his accrued vacation.  Subject to paragraph 11 below,  Apple
will  pay Eilers five hundred fifteen thousand, seven hundred fifty dollars
($515,750), less payroll tax deductions, and an additional amount equal  to
Eilers'  accrued  vacation  through  Termination  Date,  less  payroll  tax
deductions, in full satisfaction of all Apple's obligations under the Plan,
Bonus  Plan  and otherwise.  Eilers shall be paid on or before  Termination
Date  and such payment constitutes full compensation under the Plan , Bonus
Plan  and  otherwise. There shall be no other payments to Eilers except  as
stated  in  this paragraph 4(a) and in paragraph 3 above and the amount  of
such payments shall at all times remain subject to paragraph 11.

                                       108
<PAGE>


          b.   Stock Options.  Apple's Board of Directors (the "Board")
previously granted Eilers options to purchase shares of Apple Common Stock
under Apple's 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans (the "1981 and 1990 Plans")
and options to purchase shares of stock under Apple's 1987 Executive Long
Term Stock Option Plan ("ELTSOP").  Such options shall continue to vest and
be exercisable in accordance with the terms of the grant agreement issued
to  Eilers with respect to such grants, and the terms of the 1981 and 1990
Stock Option Plans and the ELTSOP administered by the Board.

          c.   Receipt of Documentation.  Eilers acknowledges that he has
previously received from Apple copies of pertinent portions of Apple's
Executive Severance Plan,  Apple's Senior/ Executive Bonus Program, Apple's
1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans, Apple's ELTSOP, Apple's Vacation and
Holiday Policies, and Apple's Benefit Plans relating to health care, life
insurance, accidental death and disability, short and long term disability
and Savings Plans.  Eilers understands and agrees to be bound by the
written terms and conditions of these various plans, policies or programs,
and agrees that Apple has reserved the right and option, in its sole
discretion, to change, interpret, modify or terminate these and all other
plans, policies or programs at any time without Eilers's consent so long as
such action does not conflict with or reduce Eiler's rights under this
Agreement.

           d.   Outplacement.  Apple will provide Eilers with the following
outplacement benefits:

           (1)   Until August 1, 1996, or such earlier date as the  parties
may  agree,  Apple will maintain as active Eilers' phone number  and  phone
line  at  (408) 974-2303 so that Eilers may continue to receive calls  with
voice  mail  box access.  Eilers agrees that his voice mail  greeting  will
refer  callers  of  a personal nature to another number and  will  instruct
callers  with Apple business to either leave a message or to another  Apple
phone  number.  Eilers agrees to forward to Edward B. Stead any  calls  for
and  on  behalf of Apple.  Apple will maintain Eilers' name and  number  in
Apple's  directory  so that Apple operators will continue  to  be  able  to
transfer calls to Dan Eilers' phone number and phone line.

                                       109
<PAGE>

           (2)   Until August 1, 1996, Apple will forward any personal mail
directed to Eilers but received by Apple to Eilers' home address.

           (3)   Apple  will  provide Eilers with a non-employee  AppleLink
account, at  Apple's expense, through August 1, 1996.

           (4)   Apple  will  provide Eilers with  an  outplacement  office
through December 1, 1996, or such earlier date as the parties may agree to,
otherwise in accordance with the outplacement benefits under the Plan.

           e.    No Other Benefits.  Eilers will not be entitled to receive
any other compensation, bonus or benefits provided by, through or on behalf
of  Apple,  its  affiliates or subsidiaries, other than benefits  that  are
vested  as of Termination Date and that are payable in accordance with  the
terms of any applicable Benefit Plan, or otherwise provided for herein.

      5.    Confidentiality.  The terms of this Agreement are confidential.
Neither  Eilers nor Apple will at any time disclose to any third party  the
fact or terms of this Agreement, except as authorized by this agreement  or
as  required by law.  Eilers may also make such disclosure to his immediate
family  members,  his  tax advisor and/or lawyer,  all  of  whom  shall  be
instructed  to  keep  the information disclosed to them  confidential;  any
disclosure by any such party shall be deemed a disclosure by Eilers.  Apple
and  Eilers  shall  not  disparage each other in  their  communications  in
response  to all inquiries from the press, public media or any other  third
parties regarding this Agreement or Eilers's employment termination.

      6.   Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information.  Eilers
agrees   to   comply  with  Apple's  "Proprietary  Rights  and  Information
Agreement" which is attached hereto as Exhibit C to this Agreement.

      In addition, Eilers agrees to continue to abide by the principles and
guidelines  in  Apple's  Global Ethics brochure, the  terms  of  which  are
incorporated  herein  to  the  extent  it  applies  to  employees   through
Termination Date and to former employees thereafter.

                                       110
<PAGE>

      On  or  before Termination Date, Eilers agrees to promptly return  to
Apple  or  its  records  retention  designee  all  Apple  proprietary   and
confidential information, including but not limited to all business  plans,
financial   records,   inventions,  discoveries,   improvements,   computer
programs, designs, documentation, notes, plans, drawings and copies thereof
to Apple.  Apple hereby gives to Eilers the equipment identified at Exhibit
D and all manuals and documents which came with such equipment.

      Eilers  and  Apple agree that this section regarding  Trade  Secrets,
Proprietary  and Confidential Information shall survive the termination  of
this Agreement.

      7.    Fiduciary  Duties/Non-Solicitation.  Eilers further  recognizes
that  Apple's work force constitutes an important and vital aspect  of  its
business.   Eilers agrees that  during his employment with Apple  he  shall
not  solicit, or assist others employed by Apple to become employed by  any
firm,  company  or  other business enterprise without the  consent  of  and
direction  from  Apple.  Through February 1, 1997,  Eilers agrees  that  he
shall not solicit, or assist others employed by Apple to become employed by
any  firm, company or other business enterprise.  Eilers further represents
that he has no time prior to the date this Agreement is signed solicited or
encouraged any employee to leave Apple without the consent of and direction
from  Apple.  Nothing in this Agreement will prevent Eilers from  providing
favorable recommendations or favorable references on behalf of persons  who
previously worked with Eilers.

      Eilers  and  Apple  also agree, that upon a breach  or  violation  or
threatened  breach or violation of any confidentiality, trade secrets,   or
non-solicitation agreement by Eilers contained herein, or if any  provision
of  Sections 5, 6, or 7 of this Agreement, Apple, in addition to all  other
remedies  which might be available to it, shall be entitled as a matter  of
right to equitable relief in any court of competent jurisdiction, including
the  right to obtain injunctive relief or specific performance.  Eilers and
Apple  agree that the remedies at law for any such breach or violation  are
not  fully  adequate  and that the injuries to Apple as  a  result  of  the
continuation  of any breach or violation are incapable of full  calculation
in   monetary  terms  and  therefore  constitute  irreparable  harm.   This
paragraph 7 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

                                       111
<PAGE>

      8.    Indemnification.   All  rights  of  indemnification  previously
provided   by   Apple  to  Eilers  by  Apple's  By-Laws   and/or   by   the
Indemnification Agreement dated May 19, 1992 shall continue in  full  force
and  effect  in  accordance with their terms, following the  date  of  this
Agreement.  A copy of Eilers's Indemnification Agreement is attached hereto
as Exhibit E to this Agreement.

      9.   Successors.  Apple will require any successor (whether direct or
indirect,  by  purchase,  merger, consolidation or  otherwise)  to  all  or
substantially  all  of  the business and/or assets of  Apple  to  expressly
assume  and agree to perform this Agreement in the manner and to  the  same
extent that Apple would be required to perform it if no such succession had
taken  place.   Failure  of Apple to obtain such assumption  and  agreement
prior  to the effectiveness of any such succession shall entitle Eilers  to
the benefits listed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Agreement, subject to the
terms and conditions therein.

      10.   Governing  Law.   The  validity,  interpretation,  effect,  and
enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without regard to its choice of law principles.

     11.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement, and Exhibits A, B, C, D & E to
this  Agreement,  set forth the entire Agreement and understanding  between
Eilers  and  Apple,  and  supersede  any  other  negotiations,  agreements,
understandings,  oral  agreements,  representations  or  past   or   future
practices, whether written or oral, by Apple, except as otherwise  provided
herein.  This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement, signed by
the  parties  to  be  bound  by  the amendment.   Parol  evidence  will  be
inadmissible to show agreement by and between the parties to  any  term  or
condition  contrary to or in addition to the terms and conditions contained
in this Agreement.

      Each  Apple  plan  or  policy  referred  to  herein  directly  or  by
implication  (except the 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans) is  incorporated
herein  only  insofar  as it does not contradict this  Agreement.   If  any
inconsistencies exist between this Agreement and any such plan,  policy  or
program,  this  Agreement  shall control.   If  any  inconsistencies  exist
between this Agreement and any such plan or policy, this Agreement and  the
1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans, those stock plans shall control.

                                       112
<PAGE>

      Nothing in any such plan, policy, or this Agreement shall change  the
At  Will nature of Eilers's employment under this Agreement by which either
party  can  terminate Eilers's employment without regard to cause.   Eilers
understands  and  agrees  that  Apple is obligated  to  make  the  payments
outlined  in  paragraph  3 and 4 of this Agreement in  the  event  Eilers's
employment terminates before Termination Date for any reason other than:

          a.   by Apple for "Business Reasons" as defined below;
     
           b.   by Eilers for any reason, except if Eilers's employment  is
terminated  for any material  breach by Apple of this Agreement.   In  this
event, Eilers will be entitled to the payments outlined in paragraph 3  and
4  adjusted  according  to  the actual, accelerated  Termination  Date  and
offsetting  any  payments  made to his prior  to  the  actual,  accelerated
Termination Date;

For  purposes  of this Agreement only, "Business Reasons" shall  mean  that
Eilers is terminated for any of the following reasons:

          (i)  engaging in unfair or unlawful competition with Apple; or

          (ii) inducing any customer of Apple to breach any contract  with
Apple; or

          (iii)making  any unauthorized disclosure of  or  otherwise
misusing any of the secrets or confidential information of Apple; or

          (iv) committing any act of embezzlement, fraud or material theft
with respect to any Apple property; or

           (v) violating any Apple policy or guideline or the terms of this
Agreement; or

           (vi)causing  material loss, damage or injury to  or  otherwise
endangered the property, reputation or employees of Apple; or

                                       113
<PAGE>

           (vii)engaging in malfeasance, negligence or misconduct,  or
failing to perform reasonable duties and responsibilities consistent with your 
duties and responsibilities to Apple; or

           (viii)failure to act in accordance with specific, reasonable
and  lawful instructions from Apple's  Chief  Executive Officer, or his 
delegate.

      12.  Right to Advice of Counsel.  Eilers understands that he has  the
right  to have this Agreement reviewed by his lawyer and acknowledges  that
Apple  has  encouraged his to consult with his lawyer so that he  is  fully
aware   of  his  rights  and  obligations  under  this  Agreement.   Eilers
acknowledges that he has done so.

      13.   Modification.   This Agreement may not  be  amended,  modified,
changed or discharged in any respect except as agreed in writing and signed
by Eilers and the Chief Executive Officer of Apple Computer, Inc.

     14.  Severability and Interpretation.  In the event that any provision
or  any  portion  of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable  by  a
court of competent jurisdiction, such provision or portion thereof shall be
considered separate and apart from the remainder of this Agreement and  the
other  provisions shall remain fully valid and enforceable, provided  that,
if  paragraph  2, 5, 6, 7, 19 or 21 are held to be invalid or unenforceable
in  response to a motion, argument or other act by Eilers, then  Apple,  at
its   sole   discretion,  may  rescind  the  Agreement  and   recover   all
consideration paid to Eilers under the Agreement.

                                       114
<PAGE>

      15.   Notices.  All notices required by this Agreement shall by given
in  writing  either  by personal delivery or by first  class  mail,  return
receipt requested.  Notices shall be addressed as follows:

     To Apple:   Apple Computer, Inc.
                 1 Infinite Loop, Mail Stop 38-I
                 Cupertino, California 95014
                 Attention:  General Counsel

     To Eilers : 1224 Miraflores Way
                 Los Altos, CA 94024

or  in each case to such other address as Eilers or Apple shall notify  the
other.   Notice given by mail shall be deemed given five (5) days following
the date of mailing.

      16.   Miscellaneous.  The rights and obligations of Apple under  this
Agreement  shall  inure to the benefit of and shall  be  binding  upon  the
present  and  future subsidiaries of Apple, any and all subsidiaries  of  a
subsidiary,  all  affiliated corporations, and successors  and  assigns  of
Apple.  No assignment of this Agreement by Apple will relieve Apple of  its
obligations.  Eilers shall not assign any of his rights and/or  obligations
under this Agreement and any such attempted assignment will be void.   This
Agreement  shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit  of  Eilers,  his
heirs, executors, administrators, or other legal representatives and  their
legal assigns.

      17.   Damage  Limitation.  At Termination Date, Eilers shall  not  be
entitled  to  recover  any  compensation, benefits  or  damages  except  as
specifically described in this Agreement.  This damage waiver provides that
no  damages (including without limitation, special, consequential, general,
liquidated or punitive damages) shall be sought or due from Apple.

                                       115
<PAGE>

      18.   Waiver.   A  waiver by either party of  any  of  the  terms  or
conditions  of  this  Agreement in any instance  shall  not  be  deemed  or
construed  to be a waiver of such term or condition for the future,  or  of
any   subsequent  breach  thereof.   All  remedies,  rights,  undertakings,
obligations, and agreements contained in this Agreement shall be cumulative
and  none  of  them  shall  be in limitation of any  other  remedy,  right,
undertaking, obligation or agreement of either party.

       19.    Release.   Eilers  hereby  completely  releases  and  forever
discharges  Michael  Spindler,  Apple,  its  officers,  directors,  agents,
employees,   attorneys,  insurers,  subsidiaries  and  affiliates   ("Apple
Parties")  from, and covenants not to sue any Apple Party with respect  to,
all  claims, rights, demands, actions, obligations, debts, sums  of  money,
damages   (including  but  not  limited  to  general,  special,   punitive,
liquidated  and compensatory damages) and causes of action of  every  kind,
nature  and character, known and unknown, in law or equity, connected  with
Eilers's  employment relationship with the Apple Parties, or any other  act
or  omission of any Apple Party which may have occurred prior to  the  date
this Agreement is signed.  Eilers further agrees that by his acceptance and
negotiation of the payment provided for in paragraph (4) of this Agreement,
he  thereby  completely releases and forever discharges the  Apple  Parties
from, and covenants not to sue any Apple Party with respect to, all claims,
rights,  demands,  actions,  obligations, debts,  sums  of  money,  damages
(including  but  not limited to general, special, punitive, liquidated  and
compensatory  damages)  and  causes of action of  every  kind,  nature  and
character,  known  and unknown, in law or equity, connected  with  Eilers's
employment relationship with the Apple Parties, or the termination of  such
relationship,  or any other act or omission of any Apple  Party  which  may
have  occurred  prior  to  Termination Date.  This  release  and  discharge
includes,  but  is  not  limited to, all "wrongful discharge"  claims;  all
claims  relating  to any contracts of employment express  or  implied;  any
covenant of good faith and fair dealing express or implied; any tort of any
nature:  any federal, state, or municipal statute or ordinance; any  claims
under  the  California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title  VII  of  the
Civil  Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. Section 1981, and any other  laws  and
regulations  relating to employment discrimination and any and  all  claims
for  attorney's fees and costs.  Eilers specifically acknowledges that  the
foregoing  release includes a complete release and discharge of  all  Apple
Parties  from  any  and  all claims, damages of any kind,  and  claims  for
attorneys fees and costs, under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of
1967 ("ADEA") as amended by the Older Worker

                                       116
<PAGE>


Benefit Protection Act ("OWBPA").  Eilers and Apple agree that part of  the
consideration payable to Eilers under this Agreement is consideration  that
Eilers  would  not  otherwise be entitled to and is  in  consideration  for
Eilers's release of claims under the ADEA as amended by the OWBPA.

      Eilers  acknowledges that he understands the protections provided  by
the  OWBPA and that the provisions of the OWBPA have been met by the  terms
of  this Agreement.  Eilers states that he knowingly and voluntarily enters
into this Agreement.  Eilers acknowledges that this Agreement is written in
a  manner  calculated to be understood by him. Eilers further  acknowledges
that  this  Agreement  refers without limitation to rights  under  the  Age
Discrimination  in  Employment  Act.   Eilers  understands  that  by   this
Agreement,  he  does  not  waive rights or  claims  that  may  arise  after
Termination  Date.  Eilers acknowledges that he is entering this  Agreement
in  exchange for consideration in addition to anything of value to which he
already  is  entitled  due to his employment with Apple.   Further,  Eilers
acknowledges  that this release of claims under the OWBPA is not  requested
in   connection  with  an  exit  incentive  program  or  other   employment
termination  program  offered to a group or class of employees  within  the
meaning of OWBPA. Notwithstanding this provision, Eilers acknowledges  that
he  has  been  allowed up to forty five (45) days from  the  date  that  he
received  this  Agreement to accept its terms. Eilers acknowledges  he  has
consulted  with  an attorney about the Agreement. Eilers acknowledges  that
after  he  signs  the  Agreement, he will then  be  given  seven  (7)  days
following  the date on which he signs the Agreement to revoke it  and  that
this  Agreement will only become effective after this seven (7) day  period
has  lapsed.  Any such revocation must be in writing signed by  Eilers  and
immediately delivered to Apple's General Counsel.

      Eilers  has read and expressly waives Section 1542 of the  California
Civil Code, which provides as follows:

      A  GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR  DOES
NOT  KNOW  OR  SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF  EXECUTING  THE
RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIS MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT
WITH THE  DEBTOR.

                                       117
<PAGE>

     This waiver is not a mere recital, but is a known waiver of rights and
benefits.   This  is  a bargained-for provision of this  Agreement  and  is
further consideration for the covenants and conditions contained herein.

      The  Apple  Parties hereby release and forever discharge Eilers,  his
agents  and attorneys from, and covenant not to sue Eilers, his agents  and
attorneys   with   respect  to,  all  claims,  rights,  demands,   actions,
obligations, debts, sums of money, damages, and causes of action ("claims")
arising from his employment relationship with Apple to the extent permitted
by  law  and  public  policy,  except  for  any  claims  arising  from  any
intentional  acts of misconduct, or any other act taken  in  bad  faith  or
without a reasonable belief that it was in the best interests of the  Apple
Parties.

      20.  Cooperation.  Eilers agrees that he will make himself  available
at  reasonable  times and intervals  to participate in the conduct  of  and
preparation for any pending or future litigation to which Apple is a  party
and in which his experience or knowledge may be relevant.  Eilers shall  be
reimbursed  for  reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses  incurred  by
virtue  of  his cooperation as described in this paragraph.  In no  respect
shall  this  provision  be deemed to pertain to or  affect  the  nature  or
substance  of  Eilers  testimony at deposition or trial  or  in  any  other
truthful testimony at deposition or trial or in any other circumstances.

     21.  Remedies in Event of Future Dispute.

           a.    Except as provided in subparagraph (b) below, in the event
of  any  future  dispute, controversy or claim between the parties  arising
from  or  relating to this Agreement, its breach, any matter  addressed  by
this  Agreement, and/or Eilers's employment with Apple through  Termination
Date,  the  parties  will  first attempt to  resolve  the  dispute  through
confidential mediation to be conducted in San Francisco by a member of  the
firm  of  Gregoria,  Haldeman & Piazza, Mediated Negotiations,  625  Market
Street,  Suite  400,  San  Francisco, California 94105.   If  the  parties'
dispute  is  not  resolved through mediation, it will be  resolved  through
binding   confidential  arbitration  to  be  conducted  by  the    American
Arbitration Association in San Francisco, pursuant to its California

                                       118
<PAGE>


Employment  Dispute Resolution Rules, and judgment upon the award  rendered
by the Arbitrator(s) may be entered by any court having jurisdiction of the
matter.   The  prevailing party in such arbitration shall  be  entitled  to
recover  from the losing party, not only the amount of any judgment awarded
in  its  favor,  but  also  any and all costs  and  expenses,  incurred  in
arbitrating the dispute or in preparing for such arbitration.

           b.    In  the  event that a dispute arises concerning compliance
with  this Agreement, either party will be entitled to obtain from a  court
with  jurisdiction  over the parties preliminary and  permanent  injunctive
relief  to enjoin or restrict the other party from such breach or to enjoin
or  restrict  a  third  party  from inducing any  such  breach,  and  other
appropriate  relief, including money damages.  In seeking any such  relief,
however,  the  moving  party will retain the right to  have  any  remaining
portion of the controversy resolved by binding confidential arbitration  in
accordance with subparagraph (a) above.

                                       119
<PAGE>

     By signing the below, the parties agree to the terms hereof, including
the Exhibits hereto, and agree that this document, and Exhibits A, B, C,  D
&  E  hereto,  sets  forth  their  entire agreement,  except  as  otherwise
expressly provided herein.

                                   APPLE COMPUTER, INC.


Date   1/18/96                     By _/s/ Edward B. Stead_____________
                                      Edward B. Stead
                                      Vice President and General Counsel
                                      Apple Computer, Inc.
                                        
                                        
I have read, understand, and agree to the foregoing:




Date  12/11/95                     By _/s/ Daniel Eilers  ________________
                                      Daniel Eilers


APPROVED AS TO FORM:




Date   12/12/95                    By _/s/ Cynthia Carlson_____________
                                      Cynthia Carlson, Esq.
                                      Gray, Cary, Ware & Freidenrich
                                      Attorneys for Daniel Eilers

                                       120
<PAGE>


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 10.A.24
                              Separation Agreement

     In consideration of the mutual agreements set forth below, Joseph A.
Graziano ("Graziano") and Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple") agree to the
following terms and conditions of this Separation Agreement (the
"Agreement"):

     1.   Nature of Business.  Apple is in the business of designing,
developing, producing, selling and marketing computer systems, related
products and services.  The business practices of Apple and the market
conditions in which Apple operates change rapidly and these changes have
necessitated prompt changes in management, and/or managers'
responsibilities.  These changes are needed from time to time in the high
level management positions such as those for which Graziano has been
employed.

     2.   Resignations and Rescission of Retention Agreement.  Employee has
resigned from his position on Apple's Board of Directors effective as of
October 3, 1995 and from his position as Chief Financial  Officer effective
as of October 31, 1995.  Graziano also hereby resigns effective October 31,
1995 from all other positions he holds on behalf of Apple, its subsidiaries
and affiliates (except for his position as an employee), which positions
are set forth at Exhibit A hereto.  Graziano agrees to sign at Apple's
request all appropriate  mutually agreeable documentation prepared by Apple
to facilitate these resignations.

     Graziano and Apple agree that in exchange for the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, the June 9, 1995 Retention Agreement between Graziano
and Apple,  a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B, is hereby
rescinded and that neither party has any further rights or obligations
under the Retention Agreement.

     3.    Employment Status/Termination.  Subject to paragraph 2 above and
paragraph 11 below, from October 31, 1995 through January 2, 1996
("Termination Date") or such earlier date as a result of an event under
paragraph 11, Graziano will continue to devote his best efforts to Apple
and will remain an employee of Apple as provided in this paragraph,
reporting to Edward B. Stead.  Until January 2, 1996, Graziano will remain
an appointed vice-president of Apple and continue to receive his regular
salary and full executive level medical insurance benefits. On or about
October 31, 1995, Apple will designate Graziano as a participant in Apple's
Executive Severance Plan ("Plan") and Graziano will become eligible to
receive benefits under the Plan valued as of December 31, 1995.  To the
extent this Agreement varies from the terms and conditions of the Plan or
Apple's Senior/Executive Bonus Program ("Bonus Plan"), this Agreement shall
govern.

     4.   Compensation and Benefits Upon Termination.  Subject to paragraph
11 below, on or about Termination Date, Apple will pay the following:

                                       121
<PAGE>

          a.   Severance Payments.   Graziano is eligible to receive a lump
sum severance payment under the Plan based on his 6 years' and 6 months'
employment and a proration of his FY '96 bonus, less deductions.  Subject
to paragraph 11 below, on or about Termination Date, Apple will pay
Graziano three hundred forty thousand, six-hundred twenty-six dollars
($340,626.00), less deductions, in full satisfaction of all Apple's
obligations to pay severance benefits under the Plan, Bonus Plan, and any
and all other written or oral agreements between Graziano and Apple
including but not limited to, the employment agreement dated June 14, 1989,
a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C.  On or about Termination
Date and subject to paragraph 11 below, Apple will pay Graziano an
additional lump sum payment of fifty nine thousand, three hundred seventy
four dollars ($59,374), less deductions, in consideration of the covenants
and promises made in this Agreement expressly including the promises and
covenants contained in paragraph 7 of this Agreement. Except as provided
for below in Paragraph 4(b), there shall be no other payments to Graziano
except as stated in this paragraph 4(a) and in paragraph 3 above and the
amount of such payments shall at all times remain subject to paragraph 11.

          b.   Stock Options.  Apple's Board of Directors (the "Board")
previously granted Graziano options to purchase shares of Apple Common
Stock under Apple's 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans (the "1981 and 1990
Plans") and options to purchase shares of stock under Apple's 1987
Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan ("ELTSOP").  Nothing in this
Agreement shall alter the terms and conditions of such options and such
options shall continue to vest and be exercisable in accordance with the
terms of the grant agreement issued to  Graziano with respect to such
grants, and the terms of the 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans and the
ELTSOP administered by the Board.  Notwithstanding this paragraph,  the
administrator of the ELTSOP has determined that the three (3) month period
relating to the exercise of options after termination of employment as
provided for in Section 9(e) of the ELTSOP shall be extended to twelve (12)
months  with respect to those outstanding stock options granted to Graziano
only under the ELTSOP which are vested and exercisable on or before January
2, 1996.

          c    Receipt of Documentation.  Graziano acknowledges that he has
previously received from Apple copies of pertinent portions of Apple's
Executive Severance Plan, Apple's Senior/Executive Bonus Program, Apple's
1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans, Apple's ELTSOP, Apple's Vacation and
Holiday Policies, and Apple's Benefit Plans relating to health care, life
insurance, accidental death and disability, short and long term disability
and Savings Plans. Graziano understands and agrees to be bound by the
written terms and conditions of these various plans, policies or programs,
unless expressly provided for otherwise under this Agreement or in the
Plan, and agrees that Apple has reserved the right and option, in its sole
discretion, to change, interpret, modify or terminate these and all other
plans, policies or programs at any time without Graziano's consent so long
as such action does not conflict with or reduce Graziano's rights under
this Agreement.

          e.   No Other Benefits.  Graziano will not be entitled to receive
any other compensation, bonus or benefits provided by, through or on behalf
of Apple, its affiliates or subsidiaries, other than benefits that are
vested as of Termination Date and that are payable in accordance with the
terms of any applicable Benefit Plan, or otherwise provided for herein.

     5.   Confidentiality.  The terms of this Agreement are confidential.
Neither Graziano nor Apple will at any time disclose to any third party the
fact or terms of this Agreement, except as

                                       122
<PAGE>

authorized by this agreement or as required by law.  Graziano may also make
such disclosure to his
spouse, tax advisor and/or lawyer, all of whom shall be instructed to keep
the information disclosed to them confidential; any disclosure by any such
party shall be deemed a disclosure by Graziano. Apple and Graziano shall
not disparage each other in their communications in response to all
inquiries from the press, public media or any other third parties regarding
this Agreement or Graziano's employment termination.  If Apple makes a
press statement which disparages Graziano, then Graziano may invoke the
procedures outlined in paragraph 21 of this Agreement.  If Graziano makes a
press statement which disparages Apple, then Apple may invoke the
procedures outlined in paragraph 21 of this Agreement.

     6.   Trade Secrets, Proprietary and Confidential Information.
Graziano agrees to comply with Apple's "Proprietary Rights and Information
Agreement" which is attached hereto as Exhibit D to this Agreement.

     In addition, Graziano agrees to continue to abide by the principles
and guidelines in Apple's Global Ethics brochure, the terms of which are
incorporated herein to the extent it applies to employee through
Termination Date and to former employees thereafter.

     On or before Termination Date, Graziano agrees to promptly return to
Apple or its records retention designee, all Apple proprietary and
confidential information, including but not limited to all inventions,
discoveries, improvements, computer programs, designs, documentation,
notes, plans, drawings and copies thereof to Apple.  Graziano shall be
entitled to keep as his own personal property the equipment listed at
Exhibit E together with manuals and product data information associated
with such equipment.

     Graziano and Apple agree that this section regarding Trade Secrets,
Proprietary and Confidential Information shall survive the termination of
this Agreement.

     7.   Non-Competition/Non-Solicitation.  Graziano further recognizes
that Apple's work force constitutes an important and vital aspect of its
business.  Graziano agrees, therefore, that both during his employment with
Apple, and thereafter until January 2, 1997, Graziano shall not solicit, or
assist others employed by Apple, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates,
to become employed by any firm, company or other business enterprise.
Graziano further represents that he has no time prior to this areement
solicited or encouraged any employee to leave Apple. Nothing in this
Agreement will prevent Graziano from providing favorable recommendations or
favorable references on behalf of persons  who previously worked with
Graziano.

     Graziano will not, without the prior express written consent of Apple,
compete with Apple on or before June 30, 1996 by engaging in or assisting
others to develop or market products or services that are in competition
with Apple products or services.  Graziano's agreement not to compete is
limited to the state of California.  Nothing in this Agreement shall
prohibit Graziano from serving as a member of the Boards of Directors of
Stratacom, Intellicorp, Pixar and/or Sharedata.

     Graziano and Apple also agree, that upon a breach or violation or
threatened breach or violation of any confidentiality, trade secrets, non-
competition or non-solicitation agreement by Graziano contained herein, or
if any provision of Sections 5, 6, or 7 of this Agreement, Apple, in

                                       123
<PAGE>

addition to all other remedies which might be available to it including
rescission of the Agreement and repayment of the consideration paid to
Graziano for the covenants or promises breached, shall be entitled as a
matter of right to equitable relief in any court of competent jurisdiction,
including the right to obtain injunctive relief or specific performance.
Graziano and Apple agree that the remedies at law for any such breach or
violation are not fully adequate and that the injuries to Apple as a result
of the continuation of any breach or violation are incapable of full
calculation in monetary terms and therefore constitute irreparable harm.
This paragraph 7 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

     8.   Indemnification.  All rights of indemnification previously
provided by Apple to Graziano by Apple's By-Laws and/or by the
Indemnification Agreement dated June 14, 1989 shall continue in full force
and effect in accordance with their terms, following the date of this
Agreement.  A copy of Graziano's Indemnification Agreement is attached
hereto as Exhibit F to this Agreement.

     9.   Successors.  Apple will require any successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of Apple to expressly
assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the manner and to the same
extent that Apple would be required to perform it if no such succession had
taken place.  Failure of Apple to obtain such assumption and agreement
prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall entitle Graziano to
the benefits listed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Agreement, subject to the
terms and conditions therein.

     10.  Governing Law.  The validity, interpretation, effect, and
enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without regard to its choice of law principles.

     11.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement, and Exhibits A, B, C, D, E & F
to this Agreement, set forth the entire Agreement and understanding between
Graziano and Apple, and supersede any other negotiations, written
agreements, understandings, oral agreements, representations or past or
future practices, whether written or oral, by Apple, including but not
limited to, the employment agreement between Apple and Graziano dated June
14, 1989, except as otherwise provided for herein.  This Agreement may be
amended only by written agreement, signed by the parties to be bound by the
amendment.  Parol evidence will be inadmissible to show agreement by and
between the parties to any term or condition contrary to or in addition to
the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.

     Each Apple plan or policy referred to herein directly or by
implication (except the 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans and the ELTSOP) is
incorporated herein only insofar as it does not contradict this Agreement.
If any inconsistencies exist between this Agreement and any such plan or
policy, this Agreement shall control.  If any inconsistencies exist between
this Agreement and the 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans or the ELTSOP,
those stock plans shall control.

     Nothing in any such plan, policy, or this Agreement shall change the
At Will nature of Graziano's employment under this Agreement and as
provided under his employment agreement dated June 14, 1989 by which either
party can terminate Graziano's employment without regard to cause.
Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, Graziano
understands and agrees that Apple is obligated to make the payments
outlined in paragraph 3 and 4 of this Agreement in the event Graziano's
employment terminates before Termination Date for any reason other than:

                                       124
<PAGE>

          a.   by Apple for "Business Reasons" as defined below;
     
           b.   by Graziano for any reason, except if Graziano's employment
is terminated for any material  breach by Apple of this Agreement.  In this
event,  Graziano will be entitled to the payments outlined in  paragraph  3
and  4  adjusted according to the actual, accelerated Termination Date  and
offsetting  any  payments  made to him prior  to  the  actual,  accelerated
Termination Date;

For  purposes  of this Agreement only, "Business Reasons" shall  mean  that
Graziano is terminated for any of the following reasons:

          (i)   engaging in unfair or unlawful competition with Apple; or
          
          (ii)  inducing any customer of Apple to breach any contract with
Apple; or

          (iii) making any unauthorized disclosure of or otherwise misusing 
any of the secrets or confidential information of Apple; or

          (iv)  committing any act of embezzlement, fraud or material theft
with respect to any Apple property; or

          (v)   violating any Apple policy or guideline or the terms of this
Agreement; or

          (vi)  causing  material loss, damage or injury to  or  otherwise
endangered  the property, reputation or employees of Apple; or

          (vii) engaging in malfeasance, negligence or misconduct, or failing
to perform reasonable duties and responsibilities consistent with your duties
and responsibilities to Apple; or

          (viii)failure to act in accordance with specific, reasonable and  
lawful instructions from Apple's  Chief  Executive Officer, or his delegate.

     12.  Right to Advice of Counsel.  Graziano understands that he has the
right to have this Agreement reviewed by his lawyer and acknowledges that
Apple has encouraged him to consult with his lawyer so that he is fully
aware of his rights and obligations under this Agreement.  Graziano
acknowledges that he has done so.

     13.  Modification.  This Agreement may not be amended, modified,
changed or discharged in any respect except as agreed in writing and signed
by Graziano and the Chief Executive Officer of Apple Computer, Inc.

                                       125
<PAGE>

     14.  Severability and Interpretation.  In the event that any provision
or any portion of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such provision or portion thereof shall be
considered separate and apart from the remainder of this Agreement and the
other provisions shall remain fully valid and enforceable, provided that,
if paragraph 2, 5, 6, 7, 19 or 21 is held to be invalid or unenforceable in
response to a motion, argument or other act by Graziano, then Apple, at its
sole discretion, may rescind the Agreement and recover all consideration
paid to Graziano under the Agreement.

     15.  Notices.  All notices required by this Agreement shall by given
in writing either by personal delivery or by first class mail, return
receipt requested.  Notices shall be addressed as follows:

     To Apple:      Apple Computer, Inc.
                    1 Infinite Loop, Mail Stop 38-I
                    Cupertino, California 95014
                    Attention:  General Counsel

     To Graziano :  14055 Chester Avenue
                    Saratoga, California 95070

or in each case to such other address as Graziano or Apple shall notify the
other.  Notice given by mail shall be deemed given five (5) days following
the date of mailing.

     16.  Miscellaneous.  The rights and obligations of Apple under this
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the
present and future subsidiaries of Apple, any and all subsidiaries of a
subsidiary, all affiliated corporations, and successors and assigns of
Apple.  No assignment of this Agreement by Apple will relieve Apple of its
obligations.  Graziano shall not assign any of his rights and/or
obligations under this Agreement and any such attempted assignment will be
void.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
Graziano's heirs, executors, administrators, or other legal representatives
and their legal assigns.

     17.  Damage Limitation.  At Termination Date, Graziano shall not be
entitled to recover any compensation, benefits or damages except as
specifically described in this Agreement.  This damage waiver provides that
no damages (including without limitation, special, consequential, general,
liquidated or punitive damages) shall be sought or due from Apple.

     18.  Waiver.  A waiver by either party of any of the terms or
conditions of this Agreement in any instance shall not be deemed or
construed to be a waiver of such term or condition for the future, or of
any subsequent breach thereof.  All remedies, rights, undertakings,
obligations, and agreements contained in this Agreement shall be cumulative
and none of them shall be in limitation of any other remedy, right,
undertaking, obligation or agreement of either party.

     19.  Release.  Graziano hereby completely releases and forever
discharges Michael Spindler, Apple, its officers, directors, agents,
employees, attorneys, insurers, subsidiaries and affiliates ("Apple
Parties") from, and covenants not to sue any Apple Party with respect to,
all claims, rights, demands, actions, obligations, debts, sums of money,
damages (including but not limited to general, special, punitive,
liquidated and compensatory damages) and causes of action of every kind,
nature

                                       126
<PAGE>

and character, known and unknown, in law or equity, connected with
Graziano's employment relationship with the Apple Parties, or any other act
or omission of any Apple Party which may have occurred prior to the date
this Agreement is signed.  Graziano further agrees that by his acceptance
and negotiation of the payment provided for in paragraph (4) of this
Agreement, he thereby completely releases and forever discharges the Apple
Parties from, and covenants not to sue any Apple Party with respect to, all
claims, rights, demands, actions, obligations, debts, sums of money,
damages (including but not limited to general, special, punitive,
liquidated and compensatory damages) and causes of action of every kind,
nature and character, known and unknown, in law or equity, connected with
Graziano's employment relationship with the Apple Parties, or the
termination of such relationship, or any other act or omission of any Apple
Party which may have occurred prior to Termination Date. This release and
discharge includes, but is not limited to, all "wrongful discharge" claims;
all claims relating to any contracts of employment, express or implied; any
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied; any tort of
any nature: any federal, state, or municipal statute or ordinance; any
claims under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. Section 1981, and any other laws
and regulations relating to employment discrimination and any and all
claims for attorney's fees and costs.  Graziano specifically acknowledges
that the foregoing release includes a complete release and discharge of all
Apple Parties from any and all claims, damages of any kind, and claims for
attorneys fees and costs, under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of
1967 ("ADEA") as amended by the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act
("OWBPA").  Graziano and Apple agree that part of the consideration payable
to Graziano under this Agreement is consideration that Graziano would not
otherwise be entitled to and is in consideration for Graziano's release of
claims under the ADEA as amended by the OWBPA.

     Graziano acknowledges that he understands the protections provided by
the OWBPA and that the provisions of the OWBPA have been met by the terms
of this Agreement.  Graziano states that he knowingly and voluntarily
enters into this Agreement.  Graziano acknowledges that this Agreement is
written in a manner calculated to be understood by him. Graziano further
acknowledges that this Agreement refers without limitation to rights under
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act.  Graziano understands that by
this Agreement, he does not waive rights or claims that may arise after the
date the Agreement is executed.  Graziano acknowledges that he is entering
this Agreement in exchange for consideration in addition to anything of
value to which he already is entitled due to his employment with Apple.
Further, Graziano acknowledges that this release of claims under the OWBPA
is not requested in connection with an exit incentive program or other
employment termination program offered to a group or class of employees
within the meaning of OWBPA.  Notwithstanding this provision, Graziano
acknowledges that he has been allowed up to forty five (45) days from the
date that he received this Agreement to accept its terms.  Graziano
acknowledges he has consulted with an attorney about the Agreement.
Graziano acknowledges that after he signs the Agreement, he will then be
given seven (7) days following the date on which he signs the Agreement to
revoke it and that this Agreement will only become effective after this
seven (7) day period has lapsed.  Any such revocation must be in writing
signed by Graziano and immediately delivered to Apple's General Counsel.

     Graziano has read and expressly waives Section 1542 of the California
Civil Code, which provides as follows:

                                       127
<PAGE>

     A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT 
KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE,
WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE 
DEBTOR.

     This waiver is not a mere recital, but is a known waiver of rights and
benefits.  This is a bargained-for provision of this Agreement and is
further consideration for the covenants and conditions contained herein.

     The Apple Parties hereby release and forever discharge Graziano, his
agents and attorneys from, and covenant not to sue Graziano, his agents and
attorneys with respect to, all claims, rights, demands, actions,
obligations, debts, sums of money, damages, and causes of action ("claims")
arising from his employment relationship with Apple to the extent permitted
by law and public policy, except for any claims arising from any
intentional acts of misconduct, or any other act taken in bad faith or
without a reasonable belief that it was in the best interests of the Apple
Parties.

     20.  Cooperation.  Graziano agrees that he will make himself available
at reasonable times and intervals to participate in the conduct of and
preparation for any pending or future litigation to which Apple is a party
and in which his experience or knowledge may be relevant.  Graziano shall
be reimbursed for his reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred
by virtue of his cooperation as described in this paragraph.  In no respect
shall this provision be deemed to pertain to or affect the nature or
substance of Graziano testimony at deposition or trial or in any other
truthful testimony at deposition or trial or in any other circumstances.

     21.  Remedies in Event of Future Dispute.
          a.   Except as provided in subparagraph (b) below, in the event
of any future dispute, controversy or claim between the parties arising
from or relating to this Agreement, its breach, any matter addressed by
this Agreement, and/or Graziano's employment with Apple through Termination
Date, the parties will first attempt to resolve the dispute through
confidential mediation to be conducted in San Francisco by a member of the
firm of Gregoria, Haldeman & Piazza, Mediated Negotiations, 625 Market
Street, Suite 400, San Francisco, California 94105.  If the parties'
dispute is not resolved through mediation, it will be resolved through
binding confidential arbitration to be conducted by the  American
Arbitration Association in San Francisco, pursuant to its California
Employment Dispute Resolution Rules, and judgment upon the award rendered
by the Arbitrator(s) may be entered by any court having jurisdiction of the
matter.  The prevailing party in such arbitration shall be entitled to
recover from the losing party, not only the amount of any judgment awarded
in its favor, but also any and all costs and expenses, incurred in
arbitrating the dispute or in preparing for such arbitration.

          b.   In the event that a dispute arises concerning compliance
with this Agreement, either party will be entitled to obtain from a court
with jurisdiction over the parties preliminary and permanent injunctive
relief to enjoin or restrict the other party from such breach or to enjoin
or restrict a third party from inducing any such breach, and other
appropriate relief, including money damages.  In seeking any such relief,
however, the moving party will retain the right to have any remaining
portion of the controversy resolved by binding confidential arbitration in
accordance with subparagraph (a) above.

                                       128
<PAGE>


     By signing the below, the parties agree to the terms hereof, including
the Exhibits hereto, and agree that this document, and Exhibits A, B, C, D,
E & F hereto, set forth their entire agreement, except as otherwise
expressly provided herein.

                                   APPLE COMPUTER, INC.



                                   By  _/s/ Michael Spindler__________
               Date   12/20/95                    Michael Spindler
                                              Chief Executive Officer
                                                Apple Computer, Inc.
                                        
                                        
I have read, understand, and agree to the foregoing:



                                   By _/s/ Joseph A. Graziano________
              Date   12/19/95                    Joseph A. Graziano
                                        

APPROVED AS TO FORM:




                                   By _____________________________
          Date                          Greg Gallo, Esq.
                                           Gray, Cary, Ware & Freidenrich
                                           Attorneys for Joseph Graziano

					129


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>

Exhibit 10.A.25
                                        
                                        
                    Summary of Principal Terms of Employment
                                        
     The following sets forth the principal terms of the employment
agreement between Apple Computer, Inc. (the "Company") and Gilbert F.
Amelio (the "Executive").  The Company and the Executive will negotiate a
definitive written agreement in accordance with the terms set forth below:

TERM:       5 years, commencing as soon as practicable after the date
            hereof (the "Effective Date").

TITLE:      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.

BASE
SALARY:     $990,000 per annum.

SIGNING
BONUS:      $200,000 payable reasonably promptly following the Effective
            Date.

LOAN:       Reasonably promptly following the Effective Date, subject to
            delivery of a promissory note and other loan documentation,
            the Company or one of its subsidiaries will lend Executive
            $5,000,000 (the "Loan").  20% of the original principal amount
            of the Loan will be due and payable on each anniversary of the
            Effective Date.  The Loan will bear interest (compounded
            semiannually and payable annually).  Any unpaid principal and
            interest on the Loan will be due and payable on the date of
            the Executive's termination or resignation of employment.

ANNUAL
BONUS:      Executive will be eligible to earn an annual bonus for each
            whole or partial fiscal year of the Company during the term.
            The annual bonus will consist of the sum of the "Component A
            Bonus" and the "Component B Bonus."

            The bonus target for the Component A Bonus for each 12-month
            fiscal year will equal 1 times Executive's annual rate of base
            salary.  The bonus target for partial fiscal years in the term
            will be prorated to take into account the number of days in
            the fiscal year occurring during the term.  The amount of the
            Component A Bonus for each fiscal year may range from 50% to
            300% of target based upon performance (it being understood
            that amounts in excess of 200% will be based on extraordinary
            performance)[; provided, however, that the minimum Component A
            Bonus for the first fiscal year of the term shall be 50% of
            the target for that year].
                                        
                                       130
<PAGE>

            The Component B Bonus for each fiscal year ending during the
            term shall be $1 million (it being understood that the
            aggregate amount of Component B Bonuses paid during the term
            may not exceed $5 million).

            The annual bonus for each fiscal year will be paid within 120
            days following the end of the applicable year.


OPTION
GRANT:      Subject to shareholder approval, the Company will grant the
            Executive an option covering one million shares of common
            stock.  The per share exercise price will be the fair market
            value of a share of stock on the day prior to the date the
            option is granted by the Compensation Committee.  The option
            will vest as follows:

            -  20% of the option will vest and become exercisable on the
               Initial Vesting Date.
            
            -  20% of the option will vest and become exercisable on each
               of the second through fifth anniversaries of the Effective
               Date.
            
            Vesting of the option on the vesting dates described above
            will occur only if the Executive is employed with the Company
            on the applicable vesting date and shareholder approval of the
            option grant is obtained.  The option will be subject to the
            standard terms of the Company's Stock Option Plan, and will be
            forfeited if not approved by the Company's stockholders at the
            first meeting thereof to occur after the Effective Date.
            
            The "Initial Vesting Date" shall mean (A) if a change in
            control of the Company does not occur on or prior to the first
            anniversary of the Effective Date, the later of (i) the first
            anniversary of the Effective Date and (ii) the date of
            stockholder approval of the option grant and performance share
            arrangement, and (B) if a change in control of the Company
            occurs on or prior to the first anniversary of the Effective
            Date, the earlier to occur of (i) the expiration of the
            Election Window (as defined below) and (ii) 18 months after
            the Effective Date, but in no event will vesting occur prior
            to the later to occur of the first anniversary of the
            Effective Date and the date of shareholder approval of the
            equity arrangements.
          
PERFORMANCE
STOCK:      Subject to shareholder approval, the Executive will be
            afforded an opportunity to earn a specified target amount of
            shares of stock for each fiscal year of the term based upon
            the achievement of performance objectives established in good
            faith for each year by the Compensation Committee and approved
            by the Board of Directors.  The target amount for each 12-
            month fiscal year will be 200,000 shares.  The target amount
            for partial fiscal years will be prorated to take into account
            the number of days in the fiscal year occurring during the
            term.  No more than 1,000,000 performance shares may be earned
            during the term.
                                        
                                       131
<PAGE>

                        The performance shares for the first fiscal year will be
            awarded to the Executive if the performance goals established
            for that year have been achieved and the Executive's
            employment with the Company has continued past the Initial
            Vesting Date.  The performance shares for each subsequent
            fiscal year will be awarded at the start of the year (or on
            the Initial Vesting Date, if later), but will be forfeited at
            the end of the year if the performance goals applicable to
            that fiscal year are not achieved.  [In the manner determined
            by the Compensation Committee, the Executive will be eligible
            to earn fewer performance shares for a fiscal year than the
            target amount specified if performance does not meet the goal
            established by the Compensation Committee for the applicable
            fiscal year.]

            Equitable adjustment will be made to the share targets in the
            event of a Change in Control.  All rights with respect to the
            award of performance shares will be terminated and any
            outstanding performance shares will be forfeited if the
            performance share arrangement is not approved by the Company's
            stockholders at the first meeting thereof to occur after the
            Effective Date.

EFFECT OF
TERMINATION
OF
EMPLOYMENT: Following a Change in Control

            a. Right to Resign in Election Window.  If a Change in
                Control of the Company occurs on or prior to the first
                anniversary of the Effective Date, the Executive shall
                have the right to resign within the 30-day window period
                beginning six months following the date of the Change in
                Control (the "Election Window").  In the event of such a
                resignation, the Executive will receive an "all in" cash
                lump sum payment of $10 million, less the aggregate amount
                of all Component B Bonuses previously paid to the
                Executive.  The Executive will forfeit the option, all
                rights to performance shares and any outstanding
                performance shares and the right to any additional future
                payments from the Company.
            
            b. Termination by the Company.  If following a Change in
                Control, the Company terminates his employment other than
                for Cause prior to the end of the Election Window, the
                Executive will receive an "all in" cash lump sum payment
                of $10 million, less the aggregate amount of all Component
                B Bonuses previously paid to the Executive.  The Executive
                will forfeit the option, all rights to performance shares,
                any outstanding performance shares and the right to any
                additional future payments from the Company.
                                        
                                      132
<PAGE>
            
                No Change in Control During the First Year.
            
            a.  Prior to the Initial Vesting Date.  If the Executive
                resigns for Good Reason or is terminated without Cause
                prior to the Initial Vesting Date, he will receive an "all
                in" cash lump sum payment of $10 million, less the
                aggregate amount of all Component B Bonuses previously
                paid to the Executive.  The Executive will forfeit the
                option, all rights to performance shares, any outstanding
                performance shares and the right to any additional future
                payments from the Company.
            
            b.  After the Initial Vesting Date.  If the Executive resigns
                for Good Reason or is terminated without Cause on or after
                the Initial Vesting Date, he will be entitled to the
                following:
            
                    -  a lump sum severance payment equal to the salary
                       and annual target bonus that would have been
                       payable to him for the remaining term of
                       employment, less the aggregate amount of all
                       Component B Bonuses previously paid to the
                       Executive.
                    
                    -  he will retain all performance shares that have
                       vested prior to the date of such termination of
                       employment and he will be eligible to vest in the
                       performance shares that would have vested at the
                       end of the fiscal year in which the termination of
                       employment occurs if the Company meets the
                       applicable performance objectives for that fiscal
                       year.  All other rights to performance shares or
                       outstanding performance shares will be forfeited.
                    
                    -  he will retain the options that have vested prior
                       to the date of such termination of employment.
                       Vested options will remain exercisable for 90 days
                       following termination of employment.  Any remaining
                       portion of the option will be forfeited.
                    
                The definitions of Good Reason and Cause will be
                negotiated in good faith (it being understood that Good
                Reason will not
                include a change in title, duties or responsibilities
                following a Change in Control that occurs on or prior to
                the first anniversary of the Effective Date).
                                        
                                       133
<PAGE>
                
                Setoff.
                
                In the event the Executive's employment ends for any
                reason, the full amount of the outstanding principal and
                interest of the Loan shall become due and payable, and the
                Company will have the right to apply any and all amounts
                payable to the Executive (including any severance or
                termination payments described above) to the payment of
                the full amount of the then outstanding principal and
                interest on the Loan.  Any remaining amount of outstanding
                principal and interest that is not paid in the manner
                contemplated by the previous sentence will be payable by
                the Executive within 5 days of the date of termination or
                resignation.
          
EXCISE TAX: Severance payments will be grossed up to take into account the
            golden parachute excise tax.

STOCKHOLDER
APPROVAL:   The Company will use reasonable efforts to obtain stockholder
            approval of the option and the performance share arrangement.
            As noted above, the option and performance share arrangement
            will be void ab initio and of no further force and effect if
            such stockholder approval is not obtained.  [In the event such
            stockholder approval is not obtained, the Company and the
            Executive agree to negotiate in good faith an alternative long-
            term performance arrangement to submit to the stockholders for
            approval.]


AIRPLANE
LEASE:      The Company agrees to lease for business reasons the
            Executive's airplane on terms to be negotiated.

OTHER
TERMS:      The definitive employment agreement will contain other
            reasonable and customary provisions.


				   134

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>

                                   EXHIBIT  11
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                 COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE
                                        
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        

                                          		 Three Months Ended
                                         	      December 29, December 30,
                                           		   1995        1994 
                                          		  
Primary Earnings (Loss) Per  Share                       
                                                         
  Earnings (Loss)                                        
     Net income (loss) applicable to common stock      $( 68,686)  $ 188,186
                                                              
  Shares                                                      
     Weighted average number of common shares 
     outstanding			 		 122,994     119,806
     
                                                              
     Adjustment for dilutive effect of outstanding 
     stock options		   			    --	       1,794
                                                              
  Weighted average number of commonshares used in                            
  the calculation of loss per share            		 122,994         --
  
                                                              
  Weighted average number of common and common                           
  equivalent shares used in the calcuation of                         
  primary earnings per share				    --	     121,600
                                                              
  Loss per common share                                $(   0.56)        --
                                             
  Primary earnings per common share                         --     $    1.55
                                                          
                                                              
Fully Diluted Earnings (Loss) Per Share
                                                              
  Earnings (Loss)                                        
     Net income (loss) applicable to common stock      $( 68,686)  $ 188,186
                               
  Shares                                                      
     Weighted average number of common shares            
     outstanding                                         122,994     119,806
                                                              
     Adjustment for dilutive effect of outstanding          
     stock options					    --         1,850
  
Weighted average number of common shares used in the                           
  calculation of loss per share            		 122,994         --
  
                                                              
  Weighted average number of common and common                            
  equivalentshares used in the calculation of fully                          
  diluted earnings per share				    --       121,656
                                                              
  Loss per common share                                $(  0.56)         --
                                             
                                                              
  Fully diluted earnings per common share                   --     $    1.55
                                                              


                                       135
<PAGE>

                                  EXHIBIT  27
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                             FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
                                        
                    (In  millions, except per share amounts)


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>ART. 5 FDS FOR THE FIRST QUARTER OF FY96 FORM 10-Q
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE>           5
<MULTIPLIER>        1,000,000


<PERIOD-TYPE>                           3-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                                        SEP-27-1996
<PERIOD-END>                                             DEC-29-1995
                                        
<CASH>                                                           824
<SECURITIES>                                                     276
<RECEIVABLES>                                                  2,036
<ALLOWANCES>                                                      92
<INVENTORY>                                                    1,947
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                               5,551
<PP&E>                                                         1,504
<DEPRECIATION>                                                   792
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                                 6,553
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                                          2,705
<BONDS>                                                          304
<COMMON>                                                         404
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                              0
<PREFERRED>                                                        0
<OTHER-SE>                                                     2,390
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                                   6,553
                                                                    
<SALES>                                                        3,148
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                               3,148
<CGS>                                                          2,673
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                                  2,673
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                                 594
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                                   0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                                17
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                                (109)
<INCOME-TAX>                                                    (40)
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                                             (69)
<DISCONTINUED>                                                     0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                                    0
<CHANGES>                                                          0
<NET-INCOME>                                                    (69)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                                 (0.56)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                                 (0.56)
                                       

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
